 Allies
of Deputy President William Ruto have now turned their guns on Chief Justice Martha Koome, blaming her for involvement in 2022 election planning affairs instead of sticking to her constitutional
mandate. In
recent months, DP Ruto’s allies have been on the offensive against members of
the National Multi-Agency Consultative Forum on Election Preparedness such as Cabinet Secretaries Fred Matiang’i and Joe
Mucheru, who they claim have already abandoned their roles by making their political allegiances known ahead of next year's elections. CJ Koome is the chairperson of the consultative forum which brings together Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) involved in preparedness for the August 2022 polls.  According
to Ruto’s camp, Koome’s duty lies in ensuring that the judiciary serves all
Kenyans fairly and as such, she shouldn’t be part of the committee as it presents a conflict of interest. “Madam Chief
Justice and the President of the Supreme Court, you cannot wear two hats that you
are preparing elections. You sit in the preparation of elections and when the
elections are over you want to wear another hat as an independent Judicial
Officer in the determination of the presidential elections,” Garissa MP Aden
Duale said. Duale
was speaking during DP Ruto’s tour of Nandi County on Wednesday. The DP was also
accompanied by Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba
Murkomen and MPs Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Didmus
Barasa (Kimilili) and Oscar Sudi (Kapseret). Duale
consequently insisted that UDA will independently file a petition seeking Koome’s
ouster if she fails to get her priorities right while also calling for her resignation. “She
must follow what the constitution says and we are going to make a formal
complaint as UDA in the next two days but she is out of order. So you better
resign as the Chief Justice and be part of our competitors.  We have no problem with that," Duale said. “You
can give them legal advice but you cannot seat in the most coveted seat as the
President of the Supreme Court who is going to lead the other six judges in the
determination of the Presidential election dispute and now you are sitting to
help us prepare free, fair and credible elections.” On
his part, Ichung’wa cautioned Koome stating that she should be wary of illegal entities trying to establish their own rules and overlook the constitutional mandates
of state agencies. “We
know there are those presiding over those illegal outfits who have ill and evil
intents and that is why we want to caution our chief justice, respectfully, to
ensure that the Judiciary and herself are not recruited into these illegal and
unconstitutional outfits,” he said. Despite
not singling out a specific individual, DP Ruto concurred that constitutional
mandates should be respected by all leaders in office.  “Having
a peaceful election and having a peaceful country is a duty and a
responsibility bestowed on all leaders of all institutions and each one of us
must discharge their responsibility in accordance with the law and the
constitution so that Kenya can continue to make strides as a nation proud to be
the people we are,” he said.  