 Students from Daraja Academy in Nanyuki believe
that negative peer influence has resulted in the current unrest and rise in
school arsons. Speaking on Citizen TV’s Day Break show on Friday, Daraja Academy students in the discussion pinpointed peer
pressure and miscommunication between the students and teachers as the main
causes of unrest in schools. “Peer
pressure is a factor in that, students seeing other schools are also burning, students begin
to feel like burning schools is a good option for them in a situation where they
feel that some of their grievances are not addressed,” stated Najma Hares a
student at Daraja Academy, a nonprofit institution that educates Kenyan girls from poor backgrounds. ” I think the major problem is the aspect
of miscommunication which is leading to burning of schools. Students out there
have a lot of grievances that are not attended to so the best way to channel
them is through violence,” Mercy Wangari another student at Daraja said. A section of other students in the same
school echoed the sentiments saying that school administrations lack a
platform where students can interact freely with teachers and thus are unable
to express themselves. ”Teachers, students and administration do
not have a platform where they can come together and talk about things which
are really affecting the students,” they explained.  Victoria Gichuhi the head of Daraja School
stressed the need for teachers to create a conducive environment where the
children can feel free to open up about their troubles. “Teachers are caregivers; it is understanding who the child is. This brings it down from teacher-student to a more engaging connection, she said.  "I am a mum to them first. This brings it down from teacher-student to a more engaging connection. We have an empowerment program at Daraja called WISH (Women of Integrity Strength and Hope) which teaches life skills," she added. In addition, Gichuhi called on parents to be close to their children in a bid to create a better relationship and understanding. "Parental guidance is
there and not there; we as parents should be accountable; parents should be aware of
their children's whereabouts,” she said. She advised schools to consider
co-curricular activities which can deviate the student’s attention and also
build on their talents.  “Apart
from learning, we need to allow students to showcase their talents. The money we
make from the paintings is used to aid in paying school fees for students.
They will be showcased tomorrow at Sabis international school, Runda,”
she noted. Daraja students implored other students to be mindful of their parents who suffer the cost of rebuilding the schools. "Students should know the reason why they came to school. When you come here don’t be influenced by other students. They should consider the future generations who will need the school too," they advised. 