 The Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) has summoned the 2NK matatu driver who is reportedly fired after driving students
abusing drugs into a police station on Friday. According to the DCI report on Saturday, DCI George Kinoti has
urged the driver, John Muthoni to avail himself at the DCI headquarters along
Kiambu Road, on November 29th. “John Muthoni is requested to contact the Director urgently through
DCI’s toll-free hotline 0800 722 203 or present himself at the DCI headquarters
along Kiambu Road, on November 29th,” DCI stated. Kinoti expressed displeasure with the school management over
the dismissal of their employee which he believes should have been
complimented for the noble act. “Muthoni should have been commended by his employer for
being brave and risking his life to report a serious crime of immorality that involved high
school kids, instead of being shown the door,” read the statement. On Friday 19th,
the said driver was transporting 14 students (seven boys and seven
girls) from Nyeri to Nairobi for the mid-term break when they started smoking bhang and drinking alcohol. "The concerned driver urged them to stop but the
intoxicated students became unruly threatening him with dire consequences,
as others warned him to mind his business and concentrate on driving them to
Nairobi,” DCI on Friday. “The students who were quick to notice the sudden
detour, hurriedly disembarked from the vehicle as it made its way to the
station. They dangerously jumped from the windows of the matatu, leaving their half-smoked
joints, half-filled bottles of liquor and luggage in the vehicle,” added the
DCI.  Following the incident, detectives at Sagana police station
summoned the school’s principal to help them identify the students. DCI Kinoti said drug abuse is a key cause of the current students' unrest in secondary
schools and the rise of arson cases leading to destruction of property. “Drugs abuse is a
crime that breaks the hearts of many parents and ruins the lives of many young
men and women. This might have contributed to recent acts of
criminality, involving torching of school dormitories and other properties,”
DCI said.  DCI went further to note that a manhunt for the students is
underway.