 Equity Bank has confirmed that no staff was injured or cash stolen during a botched robbery at its Angawa Avenue branch in Kisumu on Tuesday, November 23. “We had an incident
where armed robbers gained access into the banking hall of our Kisumu Angawa
Branch. Security agents led by local authorities are currently on the scene.
All staff are safe and no cash was lost,” the lender said in a tweet. According
to multiple eyewitness reports, several armed men stormed the bank at approximately 11am before discharging a tear gas canister which forced some clients
and staff members to flee for their lives. The
successful escapees soon after raised the alarm and first law enforcement
responders arrived at the bank at approximately 11:20 am securing and isolating
the crime scene as they waited for backup. Soon
after, Nyanza Regional Police Commander Karanja Muiruri arrived at the bank in
the company of more police officers. A fire truck also arrived on the scene to counter the effects of the teargas being hurled by the robbers who
were, at this point, already surrounded. According to multiple reports, over 30 police officers
responded to the robbery with several being seen on video scaling the
first-floor building that houses the bank as the operation progressed. Gunshots could also be
heard inside the banking hall an hour after the incident was first
reported. At
around 12:30 pm, the police labelled the siege as highly risky since they could
not exactly determine the number of hostages the robbers had taken. Police said using
force would put the lives of the captives in jeopardy. At
12:50 pm, police announced that they were waiting for the bank’s architectural schematics
before they could successfully storm the building. At the time, police believed
that the robbers were seeking refuge in the bank’s lavatories. At 1 pm, law enforcement agents were able to breach the bank by
gaining access to the institution’s ground and first floors. The
siege lasted for four and a half hours but police were unable to nab the
culprits who they suspect disguised themselves as clients during evacuation
efforts. Police
are optimistic that CCTV surveillance and eyewitness reports will help them
identify the suspects as investigations into the matter continue. Most of the clients who were evacuated are also currently being questioned by police.  