 Businessman and 2022 presidential aspirant Jimi Wanjigi says ODM Party leader Raila Odinga has exhausted his chances at presidency and should give way for new aspirants. Speaking on Sunday during a church service at AIC Daystar in Machakos County, Wanjigi said he and former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka had supported Raila in the last elections and therefore he should support other candidates’ bids next year. “My friend Kalonzo Musyoka and I have been in this game for a while now, in 2017 we were disagreeing over whether you should run for presidency or we should give Raila one more chance,” said Wanjigi. He further narrated how the two vowed to support the ODM leader in his 'last shot', saying: “We shook hands, by the way, and agreed that it was the last time. And Raila himself said he had one last bullet left to shoot.” “I don’t know if he fired or where that bullet is. But if he missed, then, that is it. 2022 cannot be about Raila. That was done and we are now onto new things… We cannot keep having elections and every time it is all about Raila, it is time for new people,” said Wanjigi, who is running for presidency under Raila’s party ticket. In attendance was the former Vice President, who offered to mediate the truce between Wanjigi and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss George Kinoti over confiscated firearms. According to Kalonzo, Wanjigi should have a bigger heart, particularly  given that he is vying for Kenya's presidency in the upcoming polls. "You are going for the presidency, na mtu anataka kuwa president lazima awe na roho kubwa sana, Kinoti is just a faithful servant of this republic just doing his duty," Kalonzo said on Sunday. Meanwhile, the former Prime Minister is yet to formally declare his 2022 presidential bid. ODM Director of Elections Junet Mohamed on Saturday announced that Raila will declare his presidency on December 10 at the Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi. “Raila ​has checked his calendar and he believes that December 10, is the day that God has made for us to converge at the Kasarani Stadium, that is the day that Baba will speak with Kenyans,” Mohamed stated.