 Austria
will become the first country in western Europe to reimpose a full COVID-19
lockdown, it said on Friday as neighbouring Germany warned it may follow suit,
sending shivers through financial markets worried about the economic fallout. A fourth wave of infections has plunged
Germany, Europe's largest economy, into a national emergency, Health Minister
Jens Spahn said, warning that vaccinations alone will not cut case numbers. Austria
said it in addition to lockdown it would require the whole population to be
vaccinated from Feb. 1. Both decisions infuriated many in a country where
scepticism about state mandates affecting individual freedoms runs high,
encouraged by the far-right Freedom Party, the third biggest in parliament. Party leader Herbert Kickl posted a picture
on Facebook with the inscription: "As of today Austria is a
dictatorship." The
party is planning a protest on Saturday, but Kickl cannot attend because he has
tested positive for COVID-19. Roughly two-thirds of those eligible in
Austria are fully vaccinated against COVID-19, one of the lowest rates in
western Europe. Its infections are among the highest in Europe, with a
seven-day incidence of 991 per 100,000 people. "We have not succeeded in convincing
enough people to get vaccinated," Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg told a
news conference, saying the lockdown would start on Monday and the requirement
to be vaccinated on Feb. 1. "It hurts that such measures still have
to be taken." Asked if Germany could rule out an
Austrian-style full lockdown, Spahn said: "We are now in a situation -
even if this produces a news alert - where we can't rule anything out. "We are in a national emergency,"
he told a news conference. European stocks retreated from record highs
while government bond yields, oil prices and the euro tumbled as the spectre of
a fresh COVID-linked lockdown in Germany and other parts of Europe cast a fresh
shadow over the global economy. "We
expect targeted measures (against COVID-19) across some countries mainly
according to the health situation, but other factors, such as domestic
political situations, will be relevant," Oxford Economics analysts said in
a note. "And while it might take a while before
a political consensus can be reached in other countries, it is clear that the
tide has turned." CHRISTMAS
CONUNDRUM As cases rise again, a number of European
governments have started to reimpose limits on activity, ranging from Austria's
full lockdown to a partial lockdown in the Netherlands read more and restrictions on the
unvaccinated in parts of Germany, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Whether or not countries opt to lock down
again depends on a wide range of factors, including local vaccination rates,
mask mandates and the extent to which booster shots are being made available. Germany has said further measures will be
decided based on when hospitalisation rates hit certain thresholds. In France,
President Emmanuel Macron has made it clear he thinks high levels of
vaccinations should be enough to avoid future lockdowns. read more Britain, with higher numbers of infections
than most countries in Europe, is rolling out third shots - or boosters - to
offset waning protection from the first two and help keep the economy open. While the new measures across Europe are not
seen hitting the economy as much as the all-out lockdowns of last year,
analysts say they could weigh on the recovery in the last quarter of the year,
especially if they hurt the retail and hospitality sectors over Christmas. A full lockdown in Germany would be more
serious, however. "A total lockdown for Germany would be
extremely bad news for the economic recovery," said Ludovic Colin, a
senior portfolio manager at Swiss asset manager Vontobel. "It's exactly what we saw in July,
August of this year in parts of the world where the delta (variant) was big, it
(COVID-19) came back and it slows down the recovery again." The pressure on intensive care units in
Germany has not yet reached its peak, Spahn said, urging people to reduce
contacts to help break the wave. "How Christmas will turn out, I dare not
say. I can only say it's up to us," he added. Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Thursday Germany
will limit large parts of public life in areas where hospitals are becoming
dangerously full of COVID-19 patients to those who have either been vaccinated
or have recovered from the illness. Merkel also said the federal government would
consider a request from regions for legislation allowing them to require that
care and hospital workers be vaccinated. Saxony, the region hardest hit by Germany's
fourth wave, is considering shutting theatres, concert halls and soccer
stadiums, mass-circulation Bild newspaper reported. The eastern state has
Germany's lowest vaccination rate.  New daily infections have risen 14-fold in
the past month in Saxony, a bastion of the far-right Alternative for Germany
party, which harbours many vaccine sceptics and anti-lockdown protesters.