Former Nairobi County Governor Mike Sonko has pointed accusing fingers to his former allies for their ‘deceit’ leading to his ouster. Speaking during KTN’s News Line show on Tuesday night, Sonko said that he was misled into signing off his gubernatorial powers to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services(NMS) “I was misled by the President’s people. I was not given a chance to go through the whole agreement, “ Sonko said. Sonko boldly called out David Murathe and George Kariuki for allegedly betraying him saying that the duo incited him to defy the head of state at the same time reported his adamancy. “The same people who told me President anatuzoea sana, usisign hii kitu(pesa), vuruga yeye kidogo went to State Househrough our friends akina Murathe, George Kariuki kusema hii shetani imekataa kusign hii kitu: then the President says toa yeye,”he said At the same time, the former County Boss faulted General Mbadi saying that the former ‘sidelined’ him after assumption of office and taking over his managerial roles. “The problem with Mbadi was somehow personal. Alianza kuchukua magari ya officials, akaeka wanajeshi huko kila mahali…. He was using power everywhere,” Sonko explained. He also claimed that General Mbadi ‘hijacked’ his position without his prior knowledge. “When I was transferring roles to the NMS, I wasn’t told I was transferring power to some General,” stated Sonko. Sonko has been on the limelight in the recent past for what is now popularly dubbed “Sonko leaks ” where he has been exposing ‘corrupt leaders’ what he terms as his way of fighting graft in the country. He however denied any regrets in while referring to his ouster as Nairobi Governor earlier in the year. “I am from a humble background. I don’t regret anything. I am grateful for what I have achieved politically, “he said. When asked about his political direction come 2022 General elections, Sonko was quick to dismiss intentions to do with political interests and alliances saying that he is focusing on his life. “I am currently handling my life. Wacha niendelee kupigana na hali yangu. I will still continue to serve Kenya in my capacity, ” stated Sonko. Sonko was earlier on Tuesday served with a court order barring him from further expose’s. Despite the court order, Sonko has vowed to continue his video leaks saying that it is his way of combating graft. “Kenya is bigger than everybody else, we have to fix this country; the Judiciary, people need to know what is happening, “ he said. “Fighting cartels has always been in my blood. I am just fighting justice for over 40 plus million Kenyans, “ Sonko added.