 U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken reiterated calls for an unconditional ceasefire in the Ethiopian conflict on
Wednesday on the first leg of an African trip which will take in Kenya, Nigeria
and Senegal. Blinken also appealed to Sudan's military
leaders to free prisoners taken in the coup there last month and to return to
the path of democracy, saying some of the financial assistance that was frozen
might be restored if civilian leadership returned. The war in northern Ethiopia, the coup in
Sudan and Somalia's long-delayed elections dominated the agenda, along with
climate change, as Blinken and Kenya's foreign minister Raychelle Omamo addressed
the media in Nairobi. Blinken described Ethiopia's year-old war as
"a growing risk to the unity and the integrity of the Ethiopian
state". He pledged support for mediation efforts by
former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo, now the Africa Union's High
Representative for the Horn of Africa, and said there was still time for a
ceasefire to succeed. "I strongly believe there is an
opportunity and an absolute necessity for all the parties to stop, to talk, to
move back, for humanitarian assistance to flow and also to be at the table
together," he said. He also urged rebellious Tigrayan-led forces
to stop their threatened advance on the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa - where
the AU is headquarted. Blinken arrived in Nairobi on Wednesday for
his first Africa trip following the COP26 climate talks in Glasgow, where
poorer nations called on rich governments to do more to help them combat
climate change. He praised Kenya for getting 90% of its
energy from renewable sources, saying it presented a global model. Omamo said Kenya looked forward to working
with the United States to plug the climate financing gap, saying that poorer
countries who did not create the problem paid the greatest price for global
warming. VIOLENCE IN NIGERIA On Thursday, Blinken will visit Nigeria -
Africa's largest oil exporter - to meet President Muhammadu Buhari, whose
government is battling an Islamist insurgency in the northeast and mass
kidnappings by armed gangs in the north and northwest. The two are expected to discuss possible security
assistance from the United States, a source in the Nigerian presidency told
Reuters. In July, Nigeria received its first six A-29 Super Tucano planes four
years after the United States agreed to sell the light attack aircraft to fight
insurgents. But analysts say Buhari has made little
progress tackling corruption that has eroded the country's infrastructure or
abuses by the security services.  Blinken's final leg is Senegal, considered
one of Africa's most stable democracies, where the focus will be on leaders and
female entrepreneurs.