 Law Society of Kenya (LSK) President Nelson
Havi now says that anything Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George
Kinoti does in the capacity of that office going forward is illegal and pointless. This follows a recent ruling by Judge Anthony
Mrima sentencing Kinoti to four months in prison for failing to obey a court
decree ordering him to return confiscated firearms belonging to businessman
Jimi Wanjigi. Havi, speaking on the Tackle show, said the
DCI now has no option but to abide by the judgement by leaving office and
presenting himself to the Kamiti Maximum Security Prison. The LSK boss further expressed confidence
that, upon the lapse of seven days which Kinoti was given to surrenfer himself
or face arrest, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai will not enforce
the court order and place Kinoti in custody. “As we speak Kinoti is a convict, he has no
moral authority even to put on a suit. He must shave his beard, his hair and he
must put on the white striped attire and remain in Kamiti,” he said. “Anything he does is effective null and void
but the IG of the police will not enforce the warrant against Kinoti. This is
something that must alarm us.” Havi also questioned why the DCI boss failed
to show up to court to explain why the firearms had not been returned to
Wanjigi, stating that his predecessor Ndegwa Muhoro was law abiding. “I remember when he (Muhoro) was directed by
Justice Luka Kimaru to come to court and explain what efforts the police have
made towards ensuring that Willie Kimani is addressed, he came to court and he
passionately sat in court for four hours and listened and assisted the court,”
Havi said. “Kinoti was asked to come to court and
explain why he has not surrendered the firearms Wanjigi. What is difficult
about that and who does he think he is?” On Friday, Kinoti moved to Milimani High
Court Judicial Review Division seeking to have the ruling withdrawn but
his petition was dismissed. Senior Counsel Ahmednassir Abdullahi has
consequently reiterated that if Kinoti fails to present himself to Kamiti, he
will - for all intents and purposes - be a fugitive from the law. “It doesn't matter whether or not the
Inspector General enforces the court order. For the purposes of his criminal
sentence, that is immaterial. Once the order of Justice Mrima crystallises,
Kinoti will be a fugitive from the law & will by operation of law stand
discharged from the police force,” Abdullahi tweeted.