 The
Assets Recovery Agency is seeking to freeze a bank account, owned by a
Kenyan student, holding over Ksh. 100 million amid concerns that the cash could
be proceeds of crime. The
Nairobi Technical Training Institute student,
21-year-old Felesta Nyamathira Njoroge, has however insisted that the Ksh.102,654,024 in her Co-operative Bank account was a gift from her Belgian
boyfriend, De Mesel Marc, to do with it as she pleases. According
to the Agency, the bank account in question was opened on August 2, 2021 and the cash wired
via a tetrad of transactions in a period of three days. The
first deposit of Ksh.25,803,756 was made on August 4, 2021, after which Ksh.
25,803,756 was wired the next day. On August 6, two separate transactions of
Ksh.25,242,756 and Ksh. 25,579,356 were made to Felesta’s account. The account held no cash before the suspicious
transactions were made. The
Assets Agency also claimed that they issued summons to Felesta on October 18,
2021, to shed light on the transactions only for her advocates to write back a
day later and say the summons were vague and had no legal grounds. “In
the letter, the legal representative making reference to the summons dated 18
October 2021 sought for “better and proper particulars of the alleged offence
with regards to what information you wish to acquire from our client,” the
Agency’s affidavit read in part. “It
further stated, the summons issued by yourself are vague in nature as we would
like a further explanation so as to advise her on what documentation she needs
to bring with her.” The
Agency also claims that the advocates later informed it that Njoroge left the
country in October and the lawyers have since gone mum on when she is expected
back in the country. The
agency is of the opinion that the cash bank account was used as a conduit for
money laundering and they are fearful that the account could be emptied if no
action is taken to freeze the money. “There are reasonable grounds to suspect the
funds held in the account in the
name of the respondent, are illicit funds in which the respondent is involved
in a money-laundering scheme, designed to conceal and disguise the nature,
source location and movement of the funds,” the affidavit reads. “Unless this honorable court grants the orders
sought, the respondent will continue to enjoy the benefits derived from
proceeds of crime,” the affidavit said. Senior State Counsel
Stephen Githinji consequently insisted that the matter should be treated with
urgency and Felesta’s account frozen to allow for investigations. “It
is in the interest of justice that preservation orders do issue the Respondent
and/or her agents or representatives from dealing in any manner with the
aforementioned assets.”