 Chief Justice Martha Koome has responded to critics calling for her resignation on claims that she has abdicated her mandate by getting involved in election planning affairs. CJ Koome, while addressing the Annual Devolution Conference in Makueni County on Thursday, expressed her resentment at those attacking her saying
that she is acting within the law. “The independence of the Judiciary is deep, it is fundamental
and cannot be taken away simply because I have sat with other agencies of governments
and with politicians. We are required by our constitution to collaborate and
coordinate our affairs; no one can act solo and be able to deliver for the
people," she stated.  CJ Koome cited the laws allowing her to participate in the meetings, stating: “The Judicial Service Act gives me the mandate to be the
link for the Judiciary with other government agencies and other arms of the
government.”  “It also creates the national council on the administration
of justice whose mandate is to collaborate and coordinate all the actors in the
administration of justice to ensure that at the end of the day we render and administer
seamless services,” Koome added. On Wednesday, November 24, Deputy
President William Ruto’s allies hit out at the Chief Justice for her
involvement in politics alleging that being part of the technical committee on the 2022 elections undermines
her position since it may present a conflict of interests. “Madam Chief Justice and the President of the Supreme Court,
you cannot wear two hats that you are preparing elections... You sit in the preparation of elections and when the
elections are over you want to wear another hat as an independent Judicial
Officer in the determination of the presidential elections,” Garissa MP Aden Duale said.  COTU chairperson Francis Atwoli and Machakos Governor Alfred
Mutua have since come out to sternly defend the CJ against her critics. Mutua who was also present at the conference told off the
aggressors noting that no concerns were raised by anyone when former Chief
Justice David Maraga led the committee ahead of the 2017 elections. “They feel like they can bully her. Stop bullying Martha
Koome and stop interfering with the judiciary. Let the judiciary do its work.”  CJ Koome is the chairperson of the consultative forum which
brings together Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) involved
in preparedness for the August 2022 polls.