Royal Media Services (RMS) Chairman Dr. SK Macharia has eulogised the late billionaire businessman and philanthropist Dr. Chris Kirubi who succumbed to a long battle with cancer on Monday. In his condolence message, Dr. Macharia described the late Kirubi as a “consummate entrepreneur who gave a magic touch to every business he indulged in.” The Royal Media Services chairman said in the passing of Kirubi, Kenya had lost an illustrious son whose contribution to public life spanned several sectors including media, business and even national politics. “The late industrialist had contributed immensely on the advisory front of national leadership, including during momentous times such as the second liberation struggle and the clamour for a new dispensation that culminated in the 2010 constitution,” said Dr. Macharia. He said Dr. Kirubi’s contributions would live to benefit present and future generations. Royal Media Services Managing Director Wachira Waruru also eulogised the late Kirubi as “an astute business leader and media entrepreneur who made an immeasurable contribution to both our industry and national economy at large.” “Dr. Kirubi was a team player who readily joined hands with other media leaders to champion the interest of the industry. His charm and charisma endeared him to colleagues and made him a great inspiration to the younger generation. I’m honoured to have known and interacted with such a great son of Kenya,” said Mr. Waruru. He added: “He leaves behind a solid legacy of innovation, industry and courage. May his soul rest in eternal peace.” Dr. Kirubi passed away at 1pm on Monday, June 14, according to his family. He was aged 80. “It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of Dr. Christopher J. Kirubi (1941-2021) who passed away today, Monday the 14th of June, 2021 at 1pm at his home after a long battle with cancer fought with fortitude, grace and courage. He was surrounded by his family,” said the family, in a statement. Kirubi was a leading Kenyan entrepreneur and philanthropist with investments in the media, manufacturing, property management, insurance and investment sectors. The illustrious businessman was the Chairman of Haco Tiger Brands Kenya Limited, Capital Media Group, International House Limited, DHL Worldwide Express Limited, Nairobi Bottlers, and Smart Applications International Limited among others. Various leaders led by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga have since sent out their condolence messages. Read Also: Tributes pour in for the late businessman Chris Kirubi  Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys