All is not politically well in the populous Mt. Kenya region. The 2022 succession  of President Uhuru Kenyatta has sparked division in the influential voting bloc with a section of leaders from Mt. Kenya East, led by Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, saying they will go it alone. They accuse their neighbours from the Agikuyu counties of selfishness and planning to field another presidential candidate after President Uhuru Kenyatta exits. A meeting of Meru leaders in Nyambene on Saturday, endorsed Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi as the region’s leader and quickly Kiraitu announced their new political direction. The Meru Governor described Mt. Kenya East as the dog in his analogy used when hunting for presidential votes but when the election is over they are regarded a minority. “Mimi nimechoka na siasa ya mbwa na paka…if a dog is important when you are hunting, it should also be important during eating…,” said Kiraitu, adding “we have supported Uhuru for 10 years, let us not hear of another leader from that region.” The recent coronation of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi at the Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga being one of the factors that sparked the loud differences between the two regions that form GEMA. Also Read: “Huwezi amka kutoka kwako asubuhi ukaenda kwa msituni siku saba halafu unakuja kutuambia wewe ni kiongozi wetu…” said Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru. “Yale madharau mnaonyesha…my friends, we are not going to be together… Hamtatukulia kwa mfuko kama njugu karanga permanently. Kama nikupasuka wacha ipasuke…,” added Senator Linturi. While attending a church service at the ACK Kanyanjeru in Kangema, Murang’a County, Speaker Muturi called the two factions to order, asking them to continue with their meetings but exercise political decorum for the interest of the region. The Service Party of Kenya boss Mwangi Kiunjuri also adding to the raging debate, dismissing the contest by various politicians to be the region’s kingpin. “…if you want to be a kingpin it is very far from us to have a political kingpin… you must be a bold politician ready to speak about the needs of our people…,” said Kiunjuri. With 13 months to the next General Election, fault lines in the Mt. Kenya continue to be increasingly visible. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s role in the unity or lack of it of the region will increasingly come into focus, as politicians who coalesced under him for his first and second terms now fighting for supremacy.  Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys