The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has picked 36 candidates to compete for the four commissioner positions that were previously advertised. Those who have been shortlisted will be required to undetake psychometric test- which tests both cognitive ability and mental agility-on Wednesday, June 30. “All shortlisted applicants are required to undertake a psychometric test on Wednesday, 30th June, 2021 at 11.00 am at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre, Nairobi. Applicants are required to arrive at the venue by 10.30 am,” the advertisement from the IEBC reads. At least 127 candidates who applied for the positions have Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees. Dr. Salim Ndemo, a Washington University alumnus who served as a commissioner of the Public Service for seven years until 2009, and Naisiae Tobiko, the Manager, Commission Services at the IEBC are among those who made the list. Kenya’s ambassador to Zimbabwe, Lucy Jebet Chelimo, and Kenya’s deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, Ambassador Koki Muli, were also selected. Also Read: Former Salaries and Remuneration Commissioner Sellestine Anna Mbii-Kiuluku is also on the list, as is Dr. Rose Mumbua Musyoka, a commissioner with the National Land Commission. Other notable names include former Gwasi MP Felix Nyauchi, Former commissioner, National Police Service Commission Murshid Abdalla, Professor Joseph Gitile Naituli a former Commissioner at the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC), Justus Nyang’aya who was Amnesty International director for a long time, former KNCHR Chairpersons Florence Jaoko and Kagwiria Mbogori as well as Roseline Odede- senior lawyer who previously contested for the IEBC chairmanship and lost narrowly. Oral interviews will be held in public at the KICC on various dates between July 7 and July 22 this year. Shortlisted candidates must also provide current clearances from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the Higher Education Loans Board, the Kenya Revenue Authority, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, and any credit reference bureau. “Members of the public are invited to avail,in writing, by memoranda, any information of interest with respect to the suitability of any of the shortlisted applicantsto serve as Member of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission,” the Commision said on Saturday. The four vacancies arose following the resignation of Vice-Chairperson Cornie Nkatha Maina, as well as Commissioners Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya, in 2018, leaving Chairman Wafula Chebukati and Commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu in office. Commissioner Roselyne Akombe resigned before the repeat presidential election on October 26, 2017. The IEBC Act creates the commission, which consists of seven commissioners, including the chairman. This means they don’t have a quorum of five members to conduct IEBC business, such as overseeing polls. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys