The power struggle in Wajir county has continued to play out in the public, causing confusion as to who is the legitimate county boss. Confusion was witnessed during the Matiang’i-led National Development implementation and communication cabinet committee, meeting with Council of Governors at Kenya School of Government when it emerged that Wajir County was being represented by two Governors. During introduction, both Mohammed Abdi Mohamud and Ahmed Ali Muktar arose to introduce themselves as the bosses when it was time to recognize Wajir county representation. Honorable Mohammed Abdi Mohamud was however ejected from the meeting by police officers who were called upon, and he chose to walk out of the meeting peacefully without commotion. Earlier during arrivals, Muktar protested to the ushers when he arrived and found that his seat was already occupied by Mohamud, and he had to seat at the same spot but behind Mohamud. Honorable Mohamud was also spotted as in attendance at the Council of Governors meeting held at a Nairobi hotel on Tuesday, June 29. Also Read: Muktar was sworn in as the third governor of Wajir County in May following the Senate’s approval of the former county boss’s impeachment. Mohamud’s impeachment trial was held by an 11-member Committee which submitted to the Senate an 144-page report recommending his removal. 25 Senators out of 47 upheld the impeachment of the Governor by the County Assembly surpassing the required threshold of a simple majority of 24 votes. Two Senators opposed the impeachment while four abstained the vote. The Wajir County Assembly alleged that the governor “had caused the health sector to run into disarray that had compromised right to the highest attainable health standards; and also that, “over Ksh.2.4 billion had been allocated to the department of medical service but the county referral hospital lab could not conduct COVID-19 tests due to faulty test kits and lack of reagents. ” In his defense, the governor denied that healthcare in Wajir had suffered under his leadership adding that the allegations levelled against him do not meet the threshold of impeachment. “The main impeachment is said to be gross violation of the constitution by not providing adequate health facilities…according to me…, we have provided enough…I could be impeached for violation of the constitution but it cannot be for gross misconduct,” the Governor told the Senate on Monday. The Wajir governor is the 9th county boss to face impeachment since the promulgation of the new constitution with two of his colleagues namely Mike Sonko and Ferdinand Waititu removed from office for gross misconduct. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy