President Uhuru Kenyatta has suffered a setback after one of his allies Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wa Muchomba defected to Deputy President William Ruto’s camp. Wa Muchomba has been one of President Kenyatta’s fiercest defenders in the Central Kenya region, and one of the most vocal female leaders of the ‘Kieleweke’ faction of the Jubilee Party. Reports of her exit from the Head of State’s team to that of the DP were fueled by photos of her meeting with Ruto at his Karen residence on Wednesday. Further, DP Ruto ally and Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga took to social networking site Twitter to welcome the Kiambu Woman Rep to “the hustler nation.” Warmest welcome to the hustler nation Kiambu Woman MP Gathoni Wamuchomba. pic.twitter.com/8X8W2KJmvW — Millicent Omanga (@MillicentOmanga) June 23, 2021 Also Read:  Nyeri Town Member of Parliament Ngunjiri Wambugu, who is also a Kieleweke pointman, said losing Wa Muchomba to the opposing team is going to be a strong blow for them. “I see that Hon Gathoni Wamuchomba has left our team and will now be playing for William Ruto’s brigade. Knowing her well I am sure that she has thought this through and she believes she’s doing the right thing,” he said in a Facebook post. “I don’t agree with her, but this doesn’t change the respect I have for her. I wish her well as we now engage from across each other, politically. As things stand I will not be surprised if we lose another one or two more valuable players.” The MP further added: “We have some heavy lifting ahead to fix our party and not everyone will want to do it. For those of us who still believe in Jubilee this is a lesson & a warning. Let’s focus on what’s important, as we fix this party. Then we will stop the loss of more valuable players.” WA MUCHOMBA AGURA: Mwakilishi wa kike Kiambu ajiunga na chama cha UDA Uamuzi umeafikiwa baada ya mkutano na naibu rais Ruto#SemaNaCitizen pic.twitter.com/Ik9SzvKNWN — Citizen TV Kenya (@citizentvkenya) June 23, 2021  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy