Police are holding a man suspected to have defrauded a nursing home located in Nakuru County over Ksh.948,000 in a false shipping deal. 50-year-old Samuel Mwendwa Mutua’s company, World Freight Logistics Limited, was in 2020 reportedly contracted by St. Joseph’s Maternity and Nursing Home to import hospital equipment as part of their expansion. These included; hospital beds, mortuary equipment, theater beds and a dental chair. The hospital on November 6, 2020 paid Ksh.407,000 to the suspect’s company’s account for freight charges after the China-based vendor had, according to Mutua, consolidated the shipment into a 40-feet container and settled it on Oceanus Intn’l Logistics (Shenzen) Co. Ltd. The facility then, on December 8, 2020, disbursed Ksh.158,200 to the suspect for shipping line charges and container deposits as a clearance permit from the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. It then paid him Ksh.383,000 on April 4, 2021 to cater for Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) rent and Ksh.183,000 as the World Freight Logistics agency fee. The suspect, after receiving this amount totaling Ksh.948,200, disappeared after making a series of false promises to deliver the goods. Also Read: “The hospital would later make their complaint at DCI’s Complaints Directorate after learning that not only had the suspect defrauded them, but also had their shipment auctioned on overstay grounds at the Embakasi ICD,” read a statement from police. “Investigations conducted by the DCI established that having received the Ksh.948,200 from the hospital, the suspect neither paid the freight charges to Oceanus Co. Ltd, rent to KPA nor the container deposits.” Detectives added: “Further, swift transfer forms presented by the suspect alleging to have paid USD 3275 to the China-based company as freight charges was found to be fake.” Mutua is set to be arraigned in court to face charges of obtaining money by false pretenses and forgery/making a document without lawful authority. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy