Kisumu county has for the last one month been considered the epicenter of the transmission of the Indian COVID-19 variant. A variant considered to result in severe COVID-19 disease in those infected. The latest report released by Kisumu county governor, Professor Anyang’ Nyong’o, is confirming the worse fears, the current infections rate are presenting more severe symptoms that earlier cases. Over the last few weeks, Kisumu county has recorded a steady increase in its COVID-19 cases which have led to a cumulative number of 5,739 infections so far. In the first week of May,  168 cases were recorded. The following week between the dates of 10th to 16th may the numbers rose to 181. That number would be more than double in the following week where 373 cases were recorded. Also Read: Between 24th to 30th may, there were 805 cases, and later 780 cases between the dates of 31st to 5th June. Such scenarios were witnessed in the latter week, during the Madaraka day celebrations and medical experts believe that the impact of flouting the COVID-19 rules will be felt in the coming weeks. What is of concern however as Professor Nyongo cites is the mortality within the county, in quote, the mortality has increased from an average of 12 at the peak last year to a new peak of 18 per week, the age bracket above 60 years proven to be at the highest risk. Now the countys’ COVID-19 multi agency committee is seeking to contain the virus by having a fresh crackdown on public service vehicles and bodabodas not complying with COVID-19 rules as well as by closing all county offices save for essential services until further notice. Additionally, the committee urges members of the public not to physically attend worship centers for their own safety while also warning that those flouting home based care guidelines will be prosecuted after institutional confinement and negative testing. The spike in Kisumu has coincided with the start of the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine across the country. In Nakuru and and Uasin Gishu the vaccination schedule has kicked off in earnest. “Ingawa tumepata dose 8000 kwa sasa tunatarajia kuwa mwezi ukisonga tutapata dozi zingine and tutavaccinate kila mtu ambaye alikuwa amepata dose ya kwanza,” Dr Daniel Wachira, Chief Heath Officer Nakuru county said on Monday. Unlike other counties, recieving additional doses of the vaccine, Garissa county is utilising its initial share of the vaccine issued to them in march. out of the 6000 doses, they have only utilised 2,344. “Ingawa hujapata message ya kukueleza you should come for the second dose, and you know you have completed the 8 to 12 week period just come and get it,” Roble Nuno, CEC Health Garrisa said. As of 7th June, 13,194 have received the 2nd dose of the vaccine…. 148 new cases were also recorded out of a sample size of 2,163. The government is hoping to ramp up the jabs as concern grows over the developments in Kisumu and the fear of a fourth wave in the coming weeks. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys