Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga has hit back at Kalonzo Musyoka over recent remarks by the Wiper party leader that he will not support him in the 2022 General Election. Raila, who spoke in Mombasa on Thursday, said he has not even declared any intention of seeking the country’s top seat in next year’s polls yet hence such declarations are null and void. The former Prime Minister further told Kalonzo that, in any case, he has not sought his support as far as the 2022 election is concerned, adding that he (Kalonzo) should relax and wait for the right time as that is still not a priority for him at the moment. “Sijatangaza mimi nataka kusimama urais, lakini wengine wanasema eti hawawezi kuniunga mkono, nimeuliza wewe uniunge mkono? Mimi sijatangaza, sasa wewe unaanza kutetemeka, unaanza kubwekabweka, subiri bwana mambo bado,” said Raila. According to the ODM chief, his focus is still on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) which was stopped by the High Court that declared it unconstitutional prompting him to appeal the ruling. “Sisi tunaangalia kwanza mambo ya BBI, mahakama ilipeleka BBI kwa half-time…reggae haijasimama, reggae imeenda kwa half-time,” he stated. Also Read: This comes after Kalonzo, in an interview with NTV aired on Wednesday, said he would be “the most stupid person on earth” to endorse Raila, who was his co-principal in the National Super Alliance (NASA), for the third consecutive time. “For me, as of now, it is unthinkable that I, Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, would support Raila Odinga for the third time…. I would be the most stupid fellow on earth to go and support — for the third time — a presidential candidate without a measure of reciprocity,” said Kalonzo. The Wiper Party leader accused the Raila-led ODM party of betrayal and causing the fallout in the NASA coalition which also brought together Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya). “The ball is in the court of ODM because they are the ones who killed it (NASA) during the by-election in Kibra when their own Secretary General announced that NASA is dead. The rest of us said it is not dead and it is still there on paper. It would take a miracle to rebuild that confidence,” said the Wiper leader. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys