FKF Cup defending champions Bandari FC have vowed to all they can to retain the title after reaching the quarter-finals where they have been drawn to play Division One side Equity FC. Bandari crushed Sigalagala TTC 5-0 in the round of 16 to advance and have the easiest fixture on paper with Equity being the only non-topflight side in the last 8. Head coach Andre Casa Mbungo said that they will treat their opponents with a lot of respect as each team is up to task and wants the chance to play in the second-tier inter club competition next term. “We have a marathon fixture so we need to give chance to every one and also rest some of our key players without forgetting our target,” Mbungo said. His main pointmen Abdallah Hassan, William Wadri and captain Bernard Odhiambi did not took part in the round of 16 matches as youthful Hassan Iddi and Swaleh Chacha given some play time. Meanwhile, Tusker FC defender Eugene Asike has credited the presence of a ‘love and bond’ between members of the squad as the fuel for their impressive start to the season. Also Read: The Brewers have been one of the standout sides this season, currently topping the league standings and are also through to the quarter-finals of the FKF Cup. While Asike says the players are happy to lift each other up and has credited coach Robert Matano for boosting their self-belief. “If you can see, there is a strong bond in the team whereby if one player is out he supports the one who’s playing and that’s a good sign. That’s what will keep us going,” Asike said. Tusker are on course to repeat their 2016 league and cup double triumph under Ugandan coach Paul Nkata but they must first overcome Leopards in the cup quarters. In another quarter finals fixtures, Gor Mahia will face off with Kariobangi Sharks in a mouth-watering clash, while City Stars cross swords with Thika based Bidco United. The winners of the quarters will meet over the weekend in the semis as Football Kenya Federation rush to send Kenya’s representative in the continental championship next season. Kenya did not send a team this season after the tournament was scrapped off due to Covid-19 situation in the country. CAF has given its member countries a 30th June 2021 deadline to submit both CAF Champions league and CAF Confederations representatives.  FKF CUP QUARTER-FINALS Bandari FC vs Equity FC
Tusker FC vs AFC Leopards
Nairobi CS vs Bidco United
Gor Mahia vs Kariobangi Sharks Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys