Calls for unity among the National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders ahead of the 2022 General Election dominated former MP Jakoyo Midiwo’s requiem service with leaders allied to ODM leader Raila Odinga calling on ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka to yet again back Odinga’s quest for the top seat. Family, friends and relatives of the late Washington Jakoyo Midiwo gathered at the Citam Church Valley road, Nairobi, to celebrate his life ahead of his final rites. Midiwo’s portraits providing a backdrop for ODM leader Raila Odinga’s allies to rally support behind him in next years State House race. “You (Kalonzo and Musalia) know we are in your hands, do something,” implored Minority Leader John Mbadi. “Together with your fellow leaders, Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi this is your time to focus on what will happen in 2022,” added Makadara MP George Aladwa. Both Kalonzo and Mudavadi, who were present during the mass, had in the last two weeks ruled out any possibility of supporting Odinga for presidency, with Kalonzo’s remarks triggering a verbal exchange with Raila Odinga. Also Read: Raila’s troops during Midiwo’s requiem mass attempted to mend fences. “I implore Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi… if you take your brother to marry a girl and you realise the girl has gone to school abroad when you hear the girl has come back you go back and take your brother so that he marries the girl,” said Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo. “Raila, Kalonzo and Mudavadi, sit together and give us one person to lead this country…” added Gatanga MP Joseph Nduati. On his part, Mudavadi deviated from the subject during his speech but revisited his calls for trust. Last week in Mombasa, the ANC boss cited lack of trust as the main reason for the collapse of the National Super Alliance (NASA). “Let us work together, let us build bridges and let us underpin everything we do with trust and I’m sure good solutions shall be found for the people of Kenya,” said Mudavadi. Odinga called for a united country ahead of next year’s polls. “I think what is important is for us to come together as the people of Kenya and we put away our ethnic origins to bring Kenya first. This is what is most important,” said Odinga. Midiwo’s family eulogised the former MP as a man who loved peace and brought his family together at all times. His body will be flown to Gem, Siaya County on Friday ahead of the funeral scheduled for Saturday at his Gem home.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy