The World Bank has announced the wiring of Ksh.14 billion ($130 million) to Kenya to support the procurement of COVID-19 vaccines. The additional financing under the Kenya COVID-19 Health Emergency Response Project will enable more vaccine access via the African Vaccine Acquisition Task Team (AVATT) and COVAX. The funding is also scheduled to the deployment of the vaccines by boosting Kenya’s cold chain storage capacity including the establishment of 25 county vaccine stores, strengthening the capacity of 36 sub-county stores and equipping 1.117 health facilities with vaccine storage equipment. “This additional financing comes at a critical time when the Government of Kenya is making concerted efforts to contain the rising cases of COVID-19 infections and accelerate the deployment of vaccines to a wider population,” said Keith Hansen, World Bank Country Director for Kenya. “The upfront financing for the acquisition of COVID-19 vaccines will enable the government to expand access to more Kenyans free of cost.” Moreover, proceeds from the new disbursement will support other activities including vaccine safety surveillance, training for health workers and advocacy & communications activities to encourage COVID-19 vaccine uptake. Also Read: “With the increased support for a rapid COVID-19 response, the World Bank is offering the government a flexible approach to select a portfolio of vaccines that best suits local capacities, timings of delivery, and vaccine approvals,” added Jane Chuma, World Bank Senior Health Economist. This is the World Bank’s second additional financing for Kenya COVID-19 Health Emergency Response Project and takes the multi-lateral lender contributions to Kenya’s COVID-19 response to a total of Ksh.26.5 billion (246 million). Last week, the World Bank announced it had a Ksh.1.3 trillion (12 billion) war chest to help low and middle-income countries purchase and distribute COVID-19 vaccines, tests and treatment. The Kenya COVID-19 Health Emergency Response Project was approved in April last year and is currently scheduled to run to March 31, 2025. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy