Modern Coast Rangers team manager Ferdinand Ogot is optimistic his team will register the victory that can spark the start of their survival fight following a spate of dismal performances. Ogot, whose team has slipped into the relegation, has found good results hard to come by after the league restart with their 2-1 victory against second-placed Kenya Police being their only bright spot in the last four fixtures. The team has lost two of the other three matches and has drawn once. Ogot has however rued a myriad of injuries to his key players as their major undoing while terming their weekend clash against Kisumu All-Stars as a must-win. “Injuries have given us a rough time more so after the league restart. “We suffered many injuries in our match against Kenya Police meaning we have had to make do without our best tools,” he reckoned. Also Read: Elsewhere Murang’a Seal will go for victory against struggling Coast Stima in their bid to arrest their two-game winless streak. The St Sebastian Park-based side has recorded mixed results since league resumption and are gunning for more consistency that will drive them out of the relegation zone. Head coach Vincent Nyaberi is positive of victory against Stima in what he terms as a must-win encounter tomorrow. “Our objective is to stay out of danger and we want to start actualizing against Stima. “We lost against Shabana and drew against Modern Coast Rangers. We aspire to start winning again to stay out of safety.” In another epic clash third-placed, Shabana will gun for victory against Kenya Police at Camp Toyoyo grounds. Weekend Fixtures Friday Vihiga Bullets v Fortune Sacco Migori Youth v FC Talanta Kibera Black Stars v Kisumu Hot Stars Gusii FC v Mwatate United MCF v Mt. Kenya United Saturday Silibwet Leons v Nairobi Stima APS Bomet v Soy United Kenya Police v Shabana Murang’a Seal v Coast Stima Kisumu All-Stars v Modern Coast Rangers Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys