National Super League giants Shabana staged a strong performance by thumping Vihiga Bullets 4-1 in Migori Stadium on Monday afternoon to go third on the log while underlining the profound impact new coach Robert Ojienda has had on the team since taking over three weeks ago. The hosts, Shabana, were quickest out of the blocks drawing first blood when Elly Augustine scored the opener in the 12th minute before Brian Michira scored their second goal in the 27th minute to give them a two-goal cushion into the break. Vihiga Bullets came back stronger in the second half, reducing their deficit through Airo Godfrey’s effort in the 47th minute. However, the Glamour Boys restored their two-goal advantage through Hillary Mukanzi’s penalty in the 65th minute after Abou Traore was brought down in the box. Talisman Fred Nyakundi “Malouda” put the game to bed in extra time with a neat finish from close range to stretch their Vihiga’s winless streak to four games. Before Robert Ojienda was appointed to replace Joseph Ongoro as the team’s head coach, Shabana had struggled for consistency with profligacy in front of goal typifying their play in the first leg. However, the Gusii stadium-based side seems to have rediscovered their shooting form after scoring nine goals and conceded five while jumping to number three in the process. Also Read: During Ojienda’s first game in charge against Mully Children’s Family, Shabana collapsed in the second half conceding two times. However, their display against Bullets was typical of a side that has worked on their concentration more so in the closing stages of the game. Speaking to Citizen Digital on the sidelines of the Migori Stadium, Ojienda lauded his charges following their latest triumph terming it as his best game so far. “I’m proud of the way we played today. My players were focused throughout the game and the fact that we have returned to number three on the log makes it special.” His opposite number Milton Kidiga rued their poor focus for allowing easy goals against an experienced side. “Our marking cost us. Shabana is a very good side and we could not afford to commit such mistakes.” Shabana will hope for an act of sweet revenge against second-placed Kenya Police while Vihiga Bullets will host Fortune Sacco next weekend. Results Modern Coast Rangers 0-0 Murang’a Seal Mwatate United 4-4 Silibwet Leons Shabana 4-1 Vihiga Bullets Coast Stima 2-3 APS Bomet Nairobi Stima 2-1 MCF Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys