Kenya Rugby fraternity and close friends are expected to pay their last respects to former Shujaa Captain and head coach Benjamin Ayimba on Wednesday at the RFUEA grounds ahead of his burial on Friday in Siaya County. Ayimba’s former colleagues and teammates during his playing days AT Impala and Harlequins are expected to grace the occasion with moving speeches and tributes expected to headline today’s event. According to family spokesperson and friend Oscar Osir plans are underway to ensure Ayimba is given a dignified sendoff with the family looking at a possibility of a body viewing ceremony at the RFUEA grounds. On Tuesday, friends and family members of the late Ayimba celebrated his life at a requiem mass held at Our Lady Queen of Peace, South B in Nairobi County. Present in the service were Ayimba’s wife, Caroline Waswa and ex-wife Lois Onyango, together with their children Brian, Gabriel, Keenan and Eli Ayimba who took the opportunity to bond and mourn as a family following the demice of their dotting father. Also present were Ayimba’s former teammates and players at Impala and Shujaa respectively where Ayimba kick started his professional career. Also Read: Longtime friend and family spokesperson Oscar Osir, KRU Chaimran Oduor Gangla, former Shujaa players and Captains Dennis Mwanja Brian Nyikuli and Humhrey Khayange were also present to mourn with the Ayimba family. Gangla mourned Ayimba as a true patriot to the game who was more than a brother and a business partner given Ayimba’s eagels eye in identifying business oportunityies and venturing into them wholeheartedly “Firstly, I want to say a big thank you to all of you the friends of Benja for the incredible love you demonstrated to him. You all responded to our call for funds to pay for his medical bill. It is God’s will that has been done and we accept that. I am really proud of how we have come together as the rugby fraternity and as Kenyans,” Gangla said. Ayimba died last month after multiple complications, ending the life of a man who enjoyed an illustrious rugby career both as a player and coach. “Benja touched the lives of all the people who he came across in a positive way. He left an indelible mark in the history of our rugby and our country. A man of many firsts, he lifted the name of this country well beyond the wildest dreams of this country. I thank God for the life of Benjamin. May he rest well, Gangla concluded. Wednesday’s event will kick off at noon and expected to be done by 2:00 pm EAT with all set regulations by the Ministry of health over the Covid-19 pandemic to be adhered. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys