Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) have arrested three more suspects in connection with the Ksh.200 million fake jobs syndicate believed to be headed by prison warder Grace Nyamohanga. Two of the three suspects nabbed on Friday are Senior Sergeant Jackson Mureithi Manyara and Corporal Zachary Kimathi Cosmas, who are prison officers believed to have been recruited by Nyamohanga. Sergeant Mureithi is said to have collected Ksh.19 million from 74 jobseekers while Corporal Kimathi collected Ksh.5.7 million from 20 jobless Kenyans. The third suspect, Peter Ngere Githu, who is based in Juja, reportedly recruited 50 jobseekers and obtained Ksh.16 million from them. The three will be arraigned in court on Monday alongside Grace Nyamohanga and Masiaga Sylvester and charged with obtaining money by false pretenses, making documents without authority, altering false document and conspiracy to defraud. Nyamohanga alias ‘Nasra’, a warder at the Lang’ata Women Prison, surrendered to the Serious Crime Unit detectives of the DCI on May 23, 2021 after the syndicate was busted and an arrest warrant issued out for her. Also Read: She is believed to operate the mafia organisation said to recruit helpless jobseekers with the promise of job opportunities in top government parastatals and government security agencies including the Kenya Defence Forces, National Intelligence Service and the National Police Service. One such victim is a woman from Kiambu county who was swindled out of Ksh.800,000 with the promise that her three children would be offered job opportunities at the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), Nairobi Metropolitan Services and the Kenya Ports Authority. She was also reportedly offered appointment letters inviting her respective children to the said institutions to take up positions that had allegedly fallen vacant. However, she became jittery on the authenticity of the appointments and alerted detectives when the suspect called twice to postpone the reporting dates citing COVID 19 restrictions. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys