Setter Jane Wacu and captain Mercy Moim will carry a combined 20-years’ experience with Kenya’s women volleyball team at the Tokyo Olympics, after the duo were named in the final Malkia Strikers squad on Friday. Veteran libero Elizabeth Wanyama and Africa women’s volleyball 2018 best attacker Violet Makuto were, however, the biggest casualties as head coach Paul Bitok moved to trim his squad ahead of the team’s departure for a three-week camp in Kurume City on July 5. The two were axed a few days after Kenya Pipeline’s attacker Pamela Adhiambo and setter Emmaculate Nekesa of KCB were also dropped. “It has been a tough job for the technical team on making decisions but with the help of Brazilian coaches using daily data of training and statistics help have merit prevails. “I know it’s painful to the two players because they are regular players in the team of 14 members but unfortunately the Olympics doesn’t use 14 players like other FIVB competition,” read part of Bitok’s statement. Moim, Noel Murambi, Pamela Jepkirui and Leanida Kasaya will lead the attack on the left side while Sharon Chepchumba and Emmaculate Chemtai are the opposite attackers in the 12-member team. Also Read: The middle blockers are Edith Mukuvilani, Lorine Chebet and Gladys Ekaru while Jane Wacu and Joy Luseneka will play as setters as Aggripina Kundu keeps his Libero position. “Giving warning to continue doing your best to maintain your position because the two players will continue training until July 5 one day before leaving for Kurume training camp in Japan and in an event they do better than the named players, technical will change the players as the deadline of the FIVB is July 5 to present the 12 players.” Kenya will face hosts Japan, Serbia, Brazil, South Korea and the Dominican Republic in Pool “A” at the Tokyo Olympics. Final member-12 squad Left attackers Mercy Moim Noel Murambi Pamela Jepkirui Leanida Kasaya Middle blockers Edith Mukuvilani Lorine Chebet Gladys Ekaru Opposite Sharon Chepchumba Emmaculate Chemtai. Setters Jane Wacu Joy Lusenaka Libero Agripna Kundu Dropped Players Violet Makuto Elizabeth Wanyama Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy