The Football Kenya Federation Premier League round 20 matches played at the weekend presented some interesting findings. We sample some of them. Unstoppable K’Ogalo seal double over Batoto ba Mungu The defending champions Gor Mahia proved their quality with a hard fought 1-0 victory against improved Batoto ba Mungu Sofapaka in Thika on Sunday. K`Ogalo have maneuvered back to the winning ways and they have won seven matches in a row in the league and 11 across all competitions, adding fuel to their quest to retain the title. As things stand they are on the overtaking lane on 37 points from 19 matches. Only five points separate them from league leaders KCB and four from second-placed Tusker though they have a game at hand which should add them more advantage. Their intention is clear; the 19-time champions are not ready to surrender the title. Jules Ulimwengu can’t stop scoring Also Read: K’Ogalo’s Burundian forward Jules Ulimwengu scored the lone goal that comfortably propelled Gor Mahia to position three spot on the log on Sunday to prove his worth. Meanwhile, Sofapaka’s new signings Micheal Kibwage and Lawrence Juma had an excellent game against the defending champions Gor Mahia. The duo stopped K`Ogalo from using their flanks and offered help in the attack. They brought stability in Sofapaka`s rearguard and ensured the goal keeper had an easy time. Tusker fish Sharks Moving on to Utalii grounds, Robert Matano coached side Tusker made the highlight of match day 20 on Sunday after their 1-0 win over fifth-placed Kariobangi Sharks. The result took the brewers to 41 points from 20 matches, a point less than leaders KCB. The Brewers are targeting the league title this season and results like this underline their determination. The Ruaraka based side is ruthless in front of the goal and the technical bench is demanding more from the players to sustain the title push. Lastly, Mathare United suffered a 0-1 defeat at the hands of league leaders  KCB at Ruaraka grounds. Players lacked morale to display anything better In total, four goals were scored in the top league over the weekend despite Western Stima  versus Nzoia Sugar match being cancelled owing to the Covid-19 situation in lakeside and western regions respectively. The league resumes this Thursday with Mathare United welcoming 13th placed Posta Rangers at Kasarani Annex Stadium. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys