One more suspect believed to have been involved in the kidnapping and murder of Shantel Nzembi, a Grade Two pupil in Kitengela, has been arrested by detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI). Nativity Mutindi, a 30-year-old woman, was arrested from her hide-out in Athi River area on Thursday evening. After a day-long search for two more suspects in connection to the kidnapping and murder of Shantel, the detectives managed to flush out Mutindi who is believed to be the one that lured the minor into the gang’s trap on Saturday as she operated an M-Pesa shop in the area. The sleuths say the suspect understands the area well and could have easily endeared herself to the 8-year-old girl. Her phone, according to the investigators, is one of those which was used to make calls to the mother demanding ransom “Walinipigia simu nyingi…luanzi siku ya kwanza on Saturday…wakipiga walikuwa tu wananiuliza kama nimepata pesa, nawaambia tu wasubiri natafuta. But walisubiri tu siku moja, Sunday, alafu mtoto wakamuua Monday,” said Shantel’s mother Christine Ngina. Also Read: This latest arrest comes as two suspects who were arrested on Wednesday were arraigned at the Kajiado Law Courts. Investigators made an application for more time to enable them complete probe into the murder. The two, Livingstone Makacha Otengo and Francis Mbuthia Mikuhu, will be in custody for 10 more days at the Kitengela Police Station And as police continue to piece together information that could help in unraveling the motive of the murder, the devastated family is left with more questions than answers about Shantel’s kidnap and murder. “Sijui nia yao ilikuwa nini, kwa sababu mimi sina deni la mtu…na sidhani kama kuna mtu nimekosana na yeye kiasi hiyo…sasa sielewi, kama ni pesa angesubiri…kwa nini ni siku moja alafu wafanyie mtoto hivo?” Said Ngina. The deceased’s uncle, Bernard Mule, said; “Kinoti na Mutyambai watusaidie tupate justice ili tujue ni akina nani waliua mtoto wetu na mbona.” Three suspects have so far been arrested as police pursue more suspects.  Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys