Ulinzi Starlets head coach Joseph Wambua is blaming the match referee for their 5-4 post match penalty defeat to Nakuru Queens at the weekend claiming the referees’ calls were biased. Queens bowed out of the race for the Kenyan Women Premier League title at the quarter final playoffs  after a 2-2 draw in normal time at the ASK Showground in Nakuru only to bow out on the penalty shootouts. In an interview with Citizen Digital, Wambua said they could have proceeded in the next stage but only if the referee was fair. “Yes, we lost against our opponents but surely the referee was not fair at all. First of all how can the federation allow the match to be officiated by referees from Nakuru where the match took place? Secondly, we were denied a clear goal and that’s why I will continue to blame the center referee,” fumed Wambua, adding that,  “she has shifted her focus to the domestic cup”, the FKF Women tourney, where they have already nailed a semi-final slot. The matches are set for August and Wambua says the aim is to bag the crown. After bowing out of the title race, Nakuru Queens will shift focus to the semis where they’ll face Thika Queens on Friday in the FKF Women Premier League. The two teams made it to the last four after winning their quarterfinal matches over the weekend. Also Read: Queens scored their first goal in the 10th minute through Becky Akinyi before Nelly Atieno equalized in the 34th minute for Ulinzi Starlets. Atieno was on the mark  again in the 43rd minute with a header to ensure the women soldiers led 2-1 at half time but Mellon Mulindi pulled one back in the 74th minute, an equaliser for Nakuru Queens, to ensure the match headed to the penalty lotteries. Meanwhile Gaspo qualified for the semis finals after defeating Wadadia 5-0 and they will face Group B leaders Vihiga Queens on Friday. “I am very well prepared for this match, all my players are in good shape and I will go for nothing but a win. We are the defending champions and I want to retain that come this Friday,” Alex Alumira, head coach of Vihiga Queens said after the quarterfinal win. The winners in the semifinals will qualify for the grand finale to be staged on Sunday at the same venue. At the same time the federation has announced that next season the league will revert to its old format hence doing away with the zoning. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys