Kenyan football giants Gor Mahia are eyeing a double this season after cruising to the FKF Cup round of 16 courtesy of a five goal thriller over CUSCO at Utalii grounds yesterday. Gor who kept a clean sheet in this match are determined to reach the semi-finals with their next outing being against Mara Sugar on Sunday at Ruaraka Grounds. John Macharia who formerly played in the Georgian league, South Sudanese International Tito Okello and Joachin Oluoch were on the score sheet to dismiss CUSCO United from the competition. Club Assistant coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo now says they are targeting both Cup and the only CAF Champions League slot available for Kenya come June 30. Yesterday’s win has stretched Gor’s winning record to six matches in all competitions ever since sporting activities resumed in the country after the Covid-19 break. ‘’As you can see, we have won six matches in a row and this is good for us. We are taking each match as a final and this will possibly help us achieve our goal of winning both the Shield and the league title,’’ asserted Sammy. Also Read: The former Posta Rangers head coach said he is optimistic of getting maximum points from the top three teams, Tusker FC, AFC Leopards, and KCB alongside avoiding any other defeat in their remaining outings. He however said he has respect for the three teams but when it comes to competition, there will be no mercy and will attempt to reap the maximum from the three giants. ‘’If we can beat the three top teams and continue with the same trend, I am sure come June 30, we shall be at the top – part of our strategy is to grab every trophy ahead of us.” Should Gor win the FKF Cup and finish top of the league, they will represent Kenya at the CAF Champions League and drop the CAF Confederations slot to possibly the runners up of the Cup competition. Gor will next play Mathare United on June 17 in league fixture before hosting Sofapaka on June 20. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys