Asilimia users will be able to use Asilimia, the technology company’s android application, to send money across all mobile money networks, at no cost. Asilimia users will also get an extra 20% worth of bonus airtime, when they purchase airtime via Asilimia for the next 30 days. Customers will also be rewarded with Airtime when they use Asilimia to pay bills and buy goods for the next 30 days. Payment of monthly utilities such as Nairobi Water, Kenya Power – for both pre-paid and post-paid bills, and to pay-TV platforms such as GoTV, Star Times and Zuku, have been included into this reward bracket. Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the use of digital financial payments has enabled societies to exchange value with less physical contact. In this regard, digital wallets have gained acceptance as an alternative to cash therefore promoting safer communities and more efficient commercial interactions. Asilimia’s Chief Executive Officer, Tekwane Mwendwa says the technology company is alive to the need for a convenient and secure financial services platform that enables customers to easily send money across networks at zero cost. “COVID-19 has brought with it heightened cost sensitivities with the discerning customer looking for more value at the best possible price. What Asilimia is offering the customer is a platform that takes away the stress of having to constantly make calculations of how much extra money you will need to successfully make a transaction, in this particular case, sending money,” said the CEO. Also Read: Asilimia is working on further improvements and partnerships. These will be announced progressively in the year, notably, to address access to low cost loans. “We have been collecting feedback from our customers that has informed the immediate next steps, with respect to the desired Asilimia customer experience: simplicity, affordability and availability,” adds Tekwane Mwendwa. Financial services and cost savings form part of Asilimia’s focus areas. In this strategic direction, Asilimia seeks to enrich its financial services offering to reflect evolving customer demands. Recently, the company announced its launch of Leja, a digital ledger to allow business owners to manage their transactions in real time. With this app, Leja users will be able to create simple cash-based accounting P&L records as well as keep a ledger of outstanding debits and credits while requiring zero technical or accounting knowledge. To use Asilimia requires one to install the application from playstore and pay off a monthly one off charge of about Ksh.350 to enjoy the unlimited zero rated mobile money transactions. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy