Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwah, Kipkelion East’s Joseph Limo, and Nominated MP David Sankok are among the highest performing male MPs in the National Assembly, according to the Mzalendo 2020 Parliamentary scorecard report. According to the report 31 MPs didn’t speak in Parliament in 2020 compared to 21 in the previous year. Eight legislators reappeared on the list of silent members: Abdi Shurie (Balambala), Alfred Sambu (Webuye East), Amina Gedow (Mandera), George Aladwa (Makadara), Gideon Konchellah (Kilgoris), Oscar Sudi (Kipseret), Rose Mumo Museo (Makueni) “175 members spoke less than 10 times accounting for 50% of the House 128 members spoke between 10-50 times accounting for 37% of the House,” the Mzalendo 2020 Parliamentary scorecard report says “Only 33 members spoke over 50 times, accounting for 9% of the House.” The rankings by Mzalendo- a non-partisan project founded in 2005 to keep an eye on the Kenyan parliament- are based on a straightforward quantitative metric: the total number of times the Member of Parliament spoke as recorded in Hansard. The performance of the Speaker, majority and minority leaders, and whips in both houses is not captured in the report. MP Suleiman Dori, who died in early 2020, and Imran Okoth, who was elected Kibra MP after his brother died, are also not included in the report. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, Nandi’s Samson Cherargei, and Bungoma’s Moses Wetangula are among the Senate’s top performers, according to the scorecard. “With the exclusion of the Senate House leadership 32 Senators spoke over 50 times, accounting for 48% of the numbers,” the report says And in the list of the worst performers, or in this case, those who spoke least is Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Kajiado’s Phillip Mpaayei and Nominated Victor Prengei. “19 Senators spoke between 10-50 times, accounting for 28% Four Senators spoke less than 10 times, accounting for 6%.” the report adds. The same scorecard ranks Suba North MP Millie Mabona, Muranga’s Sabina Chege and Homa Bay’s Gladys Wanga among best performing female legislators  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy