Sports CS Amb. Amina Mohamed has expressed satisfaction with the level of preparedness ahead of the World Rally Championship on Kenya’s soil, after her final inspection of the Service Park and Media Centre at the Kenya Wildlife Training institute – Naivasha. Accompanied by members of the steering committee as well as her Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Sports Joe Okudo, Amina lauded the commitment and resolve of all the stakeholders to stage a world class competition. “We are where we should be at this time in our preparations. We flag off on Thursday and on Friday all of us will be here to watch the real beginning of the action. I am really happy that everybody has their hands on deck and that work has been ongoing throughout without any lapses. We have had to do this in a very short time because of the pandemic but we are good to go,” assessed Amina.  Millions of local rally fans who for nearly two decades have been waiting to witness the return of the iconic safari to the African continent will finally relish the grand return, and the CS has implored them to conduct themselves with decorum to avoid sanctions by the regulatory body FIA. “The security team has been amazing in ensuring fans have spaces from which they can watch the rally, and watch it from very close quarters. This is an international event and people should enjoy, but we also need to be at our best behavior because we cannot afford this to be a one-off event since we have rights to host three edition. We will be requesting for more. The routes are completely off-limits for all of us and we should leave them for the drivers,” she advised. Also Read:  The official shakedown will be staged at the Kenya Wildlife Service institute on Wednesday, as drivers get the opportunity to test a terrain similar to the rally before the main event flags off at the Kenya International Convention Centre, KICC – Nairobi. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy