National women’s volleyball team head coach Paul Bitok has admitted that the technical handlers are faced with a selection headache ahead of the announcement of his final 12-member squad next week. At the moment there are 14 players training under a bio-secure bubble at Kasarani for the Olympic Games and they will be pruned to the required number of 12 before the team jets out for the Kurume City camp on July 5, three weeks before the pandemic-postponed Games in Tokyo. Bitok says he has been impressed by the serious levels in camp, which has made it difficult for him to pick the best. He, however, believes the players can push their claims to go to the Tokyo Olympic Games in the coming days before he finally names the travelling party. “The players have really utilised the opportunities we’ve given them and everyone is currently at the top. They’ve all shown us that they’re ready for the final squad. “But at the end of the day we must bite the bullet and drop some players although it has not been easy to do that. We will do the selection fairly and by merit and for those who will not make it to the final squad, right from those who were dropped from the start, doesn’t mean they’re not in my plans,” said Bitok. Also Read: The coach on Monday axed outside attacker Pamela Adhiambo and setter Emmaculate Nekesa. In April, Bitok trimmed the squad from 20 to 16 with Kenya Prisons experienced Middle Blocker Joan Chelagat among the four players who were axed. Others were the DCI duo of libero Josephine Wafula and Jemimah Siangu as well as KCB’s Carolyne Sirengo. “The four Brazilian coaches seconded to the team have been of great help and alongside the technical bench they keep statistics of every session and player every day and this helps us when naming the final squad,” he added. Kenya will face hosts Japan, Serbia, Brazil, South Korea and the Dominican Republic in Pool “A” at the Tokyo Olympics. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy