Budding Malkia Strikers outside attacker Pamela Adhiambo and setter Emmaculate Nekesa on Monday were dropped from the national women’s volleyball team currently training under a bio-secure bubble at Kasarani for the Olympic Games. Head coach Paul Bitok axed the two players from Kenya Pipeline and KCB clubs respectively, from the 16-member squad, as the nine-time African champions entered penultimate phase of their training for the Summer Games due on July 23 in Japan. In a statement, Bitok said he will name the final squad of 12 players next month before the team jets out for the Kurume City camp in Japan three weeks before the Games kick off in Tokyo. “I thank the two talented young players who were dropped. The effort and commitment you put in showed that you have a great potential and a promising future in your volleyball career. At the age of 18 and 20, if you maintain these standards you will be among the best in the near future and I wish you all the best,” read part of the Bitok’s statement. He further warned he will not be swayed by big names when naming the final squad. “For the remaining players be relentless in fighting for your position in the team and focus on improving the standards of Malkia strikers. Status report from all coaches indicates that you all have equal chances in the current team and at any point never relax simply because you have made it to the 14 member team, be always alert and mindful and continue training harder since we still have a great task ahead of us.” Also Read: In April, Bitok trimmed the squad from 20 to 16 with Kenya Prisons experienced Middle Blocker Joan Chelagat among the four players who were axed. Others were the DCI duo of libero Josephine Wafula and Jemimah Siangu as well as KCB’s Carolyne Sirengo. Kenya will face hosts Japan, Serbia, Brazil, South Korea and the Dominican Republic in Pool “A” at the Tokyo Olympics. Malkia Strikers Squad Noel Murambi, Mercy Moim, Leonida Kasaya, Pamela Jepkurui, Sharon Chepchumba, Emmaculate Chemutai, Violet Makuto, Joy Lusenaka, Jane Wacu, Agrippina Kundu, Elizabeth Wanyama, Edith Wisa, Gladys Ekaru and Lorine Chebet. Players Out- Emmaculate Nekesa, Pamela Adhiambo  Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys