The war of words between Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ODM leader Raila Odinga continued on Sunday, with Kalonzo accusing his nasa counterpart of failing to honour the coalition agreement they signed prior to the 2017 election. Kalonzo who spoke during a church service in Muranga called on political leaders to be honest stating that he will continue calling out leaders he believed were not true to their word. The wiper leader said he was ready to work with any political party to clinch power in the next election. After his twice bitten three times shy remarks in reference to the NASA coalition fallout where Kalonzo called out ODM leader Raila Odinga for not honouring his end of the bargain, Kalonzo continued with the onslaught. ”If you have breach of trust kama mke na bwana wakikosana when you find your partner in the act inakuwa breach of trust VIbaya sana,” Kalonzo said on Sunday. According to Kalonzo in the Wiper coalition agreement, Odinga was to be the running mate in 2017, and then support Kalonzo in 2022, Odinga however has maintained that he had yet to get his chance as president. “I’m challenging my fellow leaders to live in accordance with what we proclaim publicly and more so in writing if this is the coalition agreement of Jubilee or NASA and especially a written agreement honour it,” Kalonzo added. The wiper leader who has since joined the One Kenya Alliance comprising ANC Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi, KANU’s Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetangula however has a co-operation agreement with the Jubilee party. And despite declaring that he would rather resign than support Odinga a third time, his situation is compounded by the recent declaration by the Jubilee party that it is working on an alliance with ODM to field a single presidential candidate in 2022. “We have a cooperation agreement with Jubilee party whose party leader is President Kenyatta if others want to join they are most welcome because nikama building bridges tuunganishe kila mtu…ideally political parties collate to get political power, mimi siwezi kurudi nyuma,” Kalonzo said. While confirming that the ODM and Jubilee talks were at an advanced stage, Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju said like minded political parties would be welcomed this as his ODM counterpart Edwin Sifuna dismissed Musyoka’s demands. “An anxious bride should wait for a proposal nobody has proposed to him,” Sifuna said. With Deputy President William Ruto having openly declared his allegiance to the United Democratic Alliance, the next few months will see alignments and re-alignments in the political scene as jostling ahead of the 2022 general election picks up pace. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys