Prominent Kenyan businessman and industrialist Dr. Chris Kirubi is dead. According to the family, Kirubi passed away at 1pm on Monday, June 14, following a long battle with cancer. He was aged 80. The renowned businessman, who was diagnosed with cancer in 2016, is said to have passed on at his home surrounded by his family. “It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of Dr. Christopher J. Kirubi (1941-2021) who passed away today, Monday the 14th of June, 2021 at 1pm at his home after a long battle with cancer fought with fortitude, grace and courage. He was surrounded by his family,” said the family, in a statement. Kirubi was a leading Kenyan entrepreneur and philanthropist with investments in the media, manufacturing, property management, insurance and investment sectors. The illustrious businessman was the Chairman of Haco Tiger Brands Kenya Limited, Capital Media Group, International House Limited, DHL Worldwide Express Limited, Nairobi Bottlers, and Smart Applications International Limited among others. He was also the Deputy Chairman of Bayer East Africa Limited as well as director and shareholder at the Centum Investment Group. Dr. Kirubi was involved extensively with several African Governments. He worked with the Government of Ghana as a Board Member of the Investors’ Advisory Council and as Ghanaian Honorary Consul General in Kenya (2000 to 2008) and was the Honorary Counsel to the Republic of Mauritius in Kenya. He was also Ambassador for the Kenya Country Brand and served as Chairperson of Brand Kenya Board from March 2016 – December 2017. “He was passionate about making a difference in the lives of disenfranchised groups and was involved in a number of social causes,” said Centum Limited, in a statement. At the time of his passing, he served on the Harvard Global Advisory Council (Massachusetts, USA) with a view to advising the institution
on education matters of Africa. He also served on the Institution’s Africa Advisory Council honing in on specific needs of the continent and was a founder Council Member of the AU Foundation. Dr. Kirubi leaves behind two children, Robert Kirubi and Mary-Ann Musangi. Details on his funeral will be communicated later. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys