Chief justice Martha Koome on Monday transferred court of appeal judges and deployed the seven newly appointed ones. In the transfers, Justice Gatembu Kairu will become the presiding judge in Mombasa while Patrick Kiage has been posted as presiding judge in Kisumu. Newly appointed judges Mumbi ngugi and Francis Tuiyott have been posted to Kisumu while Justices Pauline Nyamweya and Jesie Lesiit Wanjiku will head to Mombasa Mombasa and Kisumu stations that closed due to shortage of judges will now have judges sitting permanently. Three other newly appointed Judges Msagha Mbogholi, Hellen Omondi and Dr Imaana laibuta have been posted to Nairobi The Judges will report to their new stations on July 1, 2021. The appellate court had suffered a chronic manpower crisis until the swearing in of seven judges a fortnight ago with Justice Daniel Musinga as their new president. The court was actually in danger of being deemed in breach of the constitution because of the quorum hitch which according to chapter 10 article 164 1a of the supreme law stipulates that, ….”there is a court of appeal which shall consist of the number of judges, being not fewer than 12,” The attrition of Judges from the court has been attributed to the retirement of some and promotion of others, including Justices Koome and William Ouko, who were elevated to the supreme court. According to the state of the Judiciary report 2020/2021 there were 2620 cases filed at the Court of Appeal in the financial year 2019/2020, less than 50% at 1074 were resolved. Meanwhile, at the high court 23,602 cases were filed with almost 90% of them being resolved at 22,735. The judges now have the heavy task of tackling the backlog that has accumulated to 8,412 cases. A congested in-tray for the new president of the court Justice Daniel Musinga who has been handed some manpower that his predecessor did not enjoy in the swearing in of the seven court of appeal judges. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys