Kabras Sugar winger Derrick Ashihundu scored a brace as Kabras RFC beat the national 15s team 23-15 in a friendly match staged at the RFUEA Grounds on Sunday morning. Ashiundu is currently serving a nine-week ban from Kenya Cup related activities for recklessly tackling a player whose feet were off the ground. The incident occurred during the game between Kenya Harlequins and Kabras Sugar early this year in Nairobi with the latter winning 43-5. He was however allowed to feature in the friendly. Kabras controlled the proceedings right from the start and were immediately rewarded with one try and a penalty while Simbas were trailing the game with only one penalty converted. 8-5 score line heading to the intervals. However it was the Simbas who scored the first try with Fijian utility John Kubu missing the conversion. Kabras would regroup to force the Simbas being penalized with South African Ntabeni Dukisa converting for a 5-3 score line. The sugar men would stick to their free flowing rugby that saw Ashihundu slice through the Simbas defence to outpace his marker for a beauty of a try. Dukisa missing the conversion for 10-3 score line heading to the intervals. Also Read: Soon after the break Simbas Patrick Ouko charged his way past the Kabras defence for a try. 10-8 on the scoreboard in favour of Simbas after Ashley Owain failed again to convert the extras. Converting tries for the Paul Odera coached side seemed to be a thorn in the flesh after Anthony Odhiambo failed to convert Nakuru RFC utility back John Okoth for a third time in the early morning fixture. Simbas though took a slim 15-10 lead. However the Simbas failed to maintain discipline as they conceded another unnecessary penalty which saw Dukisa slot it in easily for a 15-16 score line with only 20 minutes left on the clock. Ashiundu would side step his marker and outpace the fullback as he raced on for his second try Dukisa failing to add the extras for a 16-15 in favour of Kabras. Former Shujaa halfback Felix Ayange intercepted a loose pass from Kenya Simbas backs to score an easy try which Dukisa converted to seal the victory. 23-15 final score. The Simbas are preparing for the Rugby Africa Cup Pool B matches set for Nairobi. The Simbas are scheduled to play Zambia and Senegal in July. The match was in honour of the departed legend Benjamin Ayimba was slated for the Kakamega Showground but cancelled after news that three Kabras players tested positive for Covid-19. Kabras players led by captain Dan Sikuta, Jone Kubu, Brian Juma, George Nyambua, Bryceson Agesa, Brian Tanga and Ephraim Odour turned out for the national team. Kabras had taken a rest this weekend from the local rugby action Kenya Cup but will resume this weekend against varsity side Kenyatta University Blak Blad at the Kakamega showground in a rescheduled Kenya Cup fixture. Match Day 7: Saturday 3 July Rescheduled matches Menengai Oilers v Resolution Impala Saracens. 3.00pm, Moi Showground, Nakuru
Nondescripts v Strathmore Leos, 3.00pm, RFUEA
Strathmore Leo’s v Kenya Harlequin, 1.00pm, KCB Sports Club
KCB v Top Fry Nakuru, 3.00pm, KCB Sports Club
Resolution Impala Saracens v Mwamba, 3.00pm, Impala Club
Kabras Sugar v Blak Blad, 3.00pm, Kakamega Showground Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys