Nairobi has been ranked among the most stressful cities in the world according to a just published report. The survey by German-based well being company Vaay ranks the Kenyan Capital at position 80 out of a list of 100 countries, with the 100 rank representing the world’s most stressful city. The report assessed the 100 global cities on various factors including safety and security, gender & minority equality, social-political stability, population density, pollution levels, financial stress and traffic congestion. Nairobi scores high in having lower levels of air and light pollution and having conducive weather condition anchoring its overall score of 56.1 out of a possible 100 points. Nevertheless, the city scores low in access of healthcare, noise pollution, political stability, safety and security. At the same time, Nairobi has a high population density averaging at 6,318 person’s per square kilometre. Also Read: Similarly, Nairobi’s rampant traffic snarl-ups gives it a below average score of 46.6 points on traffic congestion. Other scores below the 50 points mark includes minority equality. In contrast, Iceland’s Capital Reykjavik is the least stressful city on the globe with a combined core of 100 points. The Scandinavian city further boasts of three-100 points’ scores on gender equality, air and noise pollution. Other cities making up the top ten list of least stressful cities including Bern in Switzerland, Helsinki, Wellington and Melbourne, Australia. Others are Oslo, Copenhagen, Innsbruck (Austria), Hannover and Graz in Austria. On the flip-side, Mumbai in India ranks as the most stressful city with a mere score of one. Other cities in the bottom five include Lagos, Manila, New Delhi, Baghdad and Kabul. In Africa, Johannesburg in South Africa ranks as the least stressful city and occupies position 49 on the top-100 list. Cape Town, Algiers and Casablanca also rank ahead of Nairobi at positions 51, 78 and 79 respectively. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys