A woman in South Africa is said to have given birth to ten infants at once, breaking a global record set just last month. According to an article published Tuesday, Gosiame Thamara Sithole, a 37-year-old mother of six-year-old twins, originally planned to have eight children, making her a rare “Octomom” like Californian Nadya Suleman. Her husband, Teboho Tsotetsi, told the Pretoria News that when she gave birth by Caesarean section on Monday at a Pretoria hospital, she was startled to see 10 kids emerge. Tsotetsi said of his wife, who was “seven months and seven days pregnant,” that she had “seven boys and three girls.” “I am happy. I am emotional. I can’t talk much. Let’s talk again in the morning please,” Tsotetsi told the outlet. Sithole, from Ekurhuleni, stated her pregnancy was spontaneous and that she had not taken reproductive therapy, which has been linked to multiple births in the past. Also Read: Gosiame Thamara Sithole gave birth to seven boys and three girls via Caesarean section. Sithole’s 10-kid delivery would be the first known birth of decuplets if confirmed. Halima Cisse, who reportedly gave birth to nine nonuplets in Malia last month, held the previous record. “Guinness World Records is aware of the news that Gosiame Thamara Sithole has given birth to decuplets, and we express our warmest condolences to the family,” a spokeswoman for the record-keeping organization told The Washington Post on Tuesday. “At this time, we are unable to authenticate this as a record because the mother and her children’s safety is paramount. “Our records team is looking into it, along with a specialist consultant,” the spokesperson stated. Sithole flaunted her large pregnant belly during a photo shoot with her husband last month, when they were still expecting octuplets. Even that had come as a surprise, she earlier told Pretoria News, because the initial scans had only revealed six infants. “It took me a while to accept it when the doctor told me,” she said of the seemingly erroneous news that she was carrying octuplets. “Even when I saw the scans I didn’t believe it. But, as time went by, I realized it was indeed true. I battled to sleep at night though,” she said. She added of her “difficult” pregnancy, “God made a miracle and my children stayed in the womb without any issues.” “All I ask is for God to help me deliver all of my children in good health, and for myself and my children to survive. “It would make me happy,” she stated at the time. Even after he thought he’d fathered eight children, her unemployed husband stated he “felt like one of God’s chosen children.” Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys