The government has reviewed COVID-19 containment measures in the country to curb the spread of infections. Kenya recorded 719 new infections on Tuesday, and a positivity rate of 9.5 percent, with the data showing that a flat curve is still far off. Addressing the nation from the State House on Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced a review of the measures in 13 counties within the Lake Basin region as well as for the rest of the country. The daily curfew which begins at 7pm and ends at 4am will remain in effect until July 31 in the counties of Busia, Vihiga, Kisii, Nyamira, Kakamega, Kericho, Bomet, Bungoma, Trans-Nzoia, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa-Bay and Migori. The 13 counties had been declared a COVID-19 hotspot zone on July 17 after registering a positivity rate of 21% against a national average of 9% over a 14-day period. In the rest of the country, curfew hours has been maintained for another 60 days, starting at 10 p.m. and ending at 4 a.m, daily. “The hours of curfew are maintained at between 7pm & 4am in the COVID-19 hotspots up to the 31st of July 2021.President Uhuru Kenyatta said on Tuesday “For the rest of the country the nationwide curfew shall continue to be observed from 10pm to 4 am for a further containment period of 60 days. ” Meanwhile, according to the new protocols, all visitors to Kenya will be required to present a COVID-19 negative PCR test certificate received within 96 hours priot to the arrival. In-person worship and congregational worship, with the exception of the 13 counties, will continue to be conducted in accordance with the Inter-Faith Council’s recommendations and the one-third capacity restriction. All political gatherings will remain prohibited for a further 60 days across the country. Funerals, cremations, and other interment services must be held within 96 hours of death confirmation, with no more than 100 people permitted at the gravesite or cremation. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy