Several Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) have died and others seriously injured after a military helicopter crash landed at the Ol Tepesi area in Ngong, Kajiado County. KDF spokesperson Zipporah Kioko confirmed that all soldiers on board the Kenya Air Force Mi 171E helicopter had been accounted for with several having died in the crash. “The injured were airlifted and are at the Defence Forces Memorial Hospital, Nairobi… Regrettably, following the crash, we suffered fatalities. The process of communicating with the families to relay the information and KDF condolences are underway,” she said in a statement. The Kenya Air Force Mi 171E helicopter with a capacity of 24 was on a training mission when it crashed. Speaking to Citizen TV, Kenya Air Force Commander Major General Francis Ogolla said the helicopter departed the Moi Airbase at 8.10 am before it crashed at landing several minutes later. “This was a very unfortunate incident that happened today at 8.30am… Our aircraft which was on a normal training mission involving several crew departed Moi airbase at 8.10am. As it was coming to land, we got information that it crashed. Some people have been rescued and taken to Nairobi for treatment. A few who were on board are feared dead but we are not sure of the exact number,” said the Air Force Commander. Also Read: He pointed out that aircraft was okay, adding that an investigative team had began a probe to establish what caused the helicopter to crash. “Until we remove the wreckage and conclude with the site we will not be able to tell you how many have passed on. The aircraft was okay and therefore we have put up an investigative team to come on ground and find out what might have been the cause,” he said. Aircraft accident investigators are at the crash site to establish the cause of the accident.   AJALI YA NDEGE: Helikopta ya kijeshi yaanguka huko Ol Tepesi Ngong kaunti ya KajiadoKulingana na kitengo cha jeshi la wanahewa shuguli za uokoaji zinaendelea Helikopta hiyo ya kijeshi aina ya Mi 171e ilikuwa katika zoezi la mafunzo#SemaNaCitizen pic.twitter.com/5Yz5Tw1v2x — Citizen TV Kenya (@citizentvkenya) June 24, 2021  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy