Rugby players, clubs and federations could be allowed to pay their last respects to fallen rugby great Benjamin Ayimba before he is laid to rest in Alego, Siaya County on 11th June. According to family spokesperson and friend Oscar Osir plans are underway to ensure Ayimba is given a dignified sendoff with the family looking at a possibility of a body viewing ceremony at the RFUEA grounds on June 9. In an Interview with Citizen Digital, Osir who played alongside Ayimba during their playing days at Impala and the Kenyan team respectively believes it would be decent to bring over Ayimba remains for one last time. “We won the Enterprise Cup, Kenya Cup and the Safari Sevens on this pitch and it if everything goes to plan and allowed we can bring him and allow Kenyans to pay their last respects as we hold a vigil for him,” Osir said. Osir further adding that it will be a challenge to replicate the impact Ayimba had on the sport in terms of improving safe rugby, promoting and sensitizing the development of the sport at the grassroots. “It is definitely a challenge given that Ayimba was a people’s person and the impact he had on the lives of those who loved rugby is evident,” Osir added. Also Read: A fundraising ceremony has been organized by the Kenya Rugby Union on Thursday 3 June 2021 at Citam Church along Valley Road as they try to offset the Sh.1.7 million pending hospital bill. In a separate interview, KRU Chairman Oduor Gangla urged all Kenyans of goodwill to come out and assist the Ayimba family during the difficult moment. “We are actively raising money through different digital platforms as we try to offset the remaining 1.7 million hospital bill and I urge Kenyans of goodwill to come forward and help clear the bill as we try to give Ayimba a dignified burial,” Gangla said. A mass followed by a vigil at the RFUEA grounds on the 8 and 9 June 2021 have been organized for Ayimba who succumbed to cerebral malaria and is expected to be laid to rest on 11 June 2021 in Alego Siaya County. “They say Rugby was made in heaven and may Ayimba also plays the game he so loved and dedicated his life to in heaven, and may his soul rest in eternal peace,” Gangla concluded. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys