Bandari FC coach Andre Casa Mbungo has termed their first win since league resumption on Friday as a key motivator ahead of their tough assignment against Gor Mahia on Wednesday. The Dockers who had drawn and lost twice in their first four matches, dispatched Kariobangi 4-1 in Mbaraki and Mbungo is keen to extend the good form in their next match. The Rwandese tactician is also pleased to see his players convert the chances created in the encounter with Umar Kasumba opening his goal account for the club since his arrival in the mid-transfer window. “We were creating chances and ended up wasting them but now we are doing justice to them,” said  Mbungo. He added, “We wish to build on that win in our next game as we aim to move up in the table.” On his side Benjamin Mosha who scored two goals against Sharks said that they have worked so hard to reclaim their lost glory and they will be aiming for nothing but three points in their future matches. Also Read: “The pressure on us was so much that we had to restructure and we won as a team hoping for more going forward,” he explained. The hosts got their other two goals through Ugandan Kasumba and his fellow compatriot William Wadri who scored a penalty as Erick Kapaito also scored from the spot for Sharks. Bandari will battle Gor Mahia who lost their first match against Western after going eight matches unbeaten in the league. Victory for Bandari could take them to fifth on 34 points should fifth-placed Nairobi City Stars falter. In the first leg meeting in Mombasa, K’Ogalo won 3-1, Burundian Jules Ulimwengu bagging a brace while Nicolas Kipkirui also scored a solo goal to hand Manuel Vaz Pinto coached side an important win. Collated fixture Bidco United vs Kakamega Homeboyz Western Stima vs Sofapaka Nairobi City Stars vs Wazito FC Vihiga United vs Mathare United AFC Leopards vs Kariobangi Sharks KCB FC vs Nzoia United Ulinzi Stars vs Tusker FC Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy