KCB Bank Kenya has on Thursday unveiled a chopper for the World Rally Championship (WRC) Safari. The chopper will be used to give lucky fans a ride during the two-day event in Naivasha and Nakuru spectator stages. Over 36 lucky fans will get a chance to take the helicopter ride over the Longonot, Soysambu Farm, and Hells gate enabling them to enjoy watching the rally route and cars from the sky. Speaking during the unveiling ceremony at WRC Safari Rally Centre in Kasarani, KCB Group Acting Marketing, Communication, and Citizenship Director Wanyi Mwaura said the bank is offering rally fans the opportunity to have a joy ride over the track. “We are looking at giving rally fans a very different viewing experience,” Ms. Mwaura said.  “Our fans have stuck with us over the past 19 years when WRC was absent, we want to return the favour by allowing them to experience the thrill of watching the race from the sky.” As the Official Financial Partner in the championship, KCB Bank Kenya committed KShs.100 million in sponsorship towards the 2021 World Rally Championship (WRC) Safari Rally Kenya. The deal cements the Bank’s footprint in supporting sports which cuts across various disciplines—motorsports, golf, athletics, chess, rugby, volleyball, and football. Also Read: “Our sponsorship has sustained motorsports in Kenya over the years, we want to give our pumped-up fans a lively experience,” said Ms. Mwaura. “You can see the race track a lot better and it’s good looking down on it all, rather than looking straight at it.” The bank has an online activation rewarding fans to join KCB spectator stage during the rally while similar draws will be run during the event at the spectator stages. The Bank is the Official Financial Partner in the championship which will be held on June 24-27, 2021. The deal cements the Bank’s footprint in supporting sports which cuts across various disciplines – motorsports, golf, athletics, chess, rugby, volleyball, and football. The Bank is keen on further deepening its contribution towards sports in the East African region, as a way of supporting communities and building a critical mass of sporting talents, this is critically important as the pandemic continue to impact sports activities. Over the past 18 years, KCB has invested over KShs.1.2 billion towards supporting motorsports, largely rallies and autocross circuits, through Kenya Motorsports Federation (KMSF). WRC is one of the oldest and leading global motorsport competitions and is governed by Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile, (FIA). The championship returns to Kenya after a nearly two-decade hiatus, having been postponed from 2020 after the Covid-19 pandemic struck. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys