Africa Cup Triathlon gold medalist Susy Wanjala Nyongesa now says her eyes are set on the Olympics. Wanjala earned Kenya its first gold medal at the ongoing African Triathlon Championships in Shark El Sheikh, Egypt for those aged 25-29 years in the women category, with Morocco and Egypt settling for bronze and silver respectively. To bag the gold, Wanjala, 25, outshone her close rivals in cycling and running transitions that ensured Kenya prevailed. “First gold medal for Kenya. Susan Wanjala at the ongoing African Triathlon Championships in Shark El Sheikh, Egypt…,” she wrote on her Facebook page, expressing her delight at bagging the cherished medal. At the same time Wanjala thanked the government for support and promised to work even harder as she now eyes the Olympics. “I trained hard, and I was confident I would carry the day, I want to thank the Government, the Ministry of Sports in particular for the support. I am eyeing the Olympics and I have confidence I will write history too,” Wanjala told Citizen Digital. Also Read: Wanjala recalled how she joined the sport. “I started this four years ago, I was successfully picked in Mombasa after the trials to represent the country in Egypt, I came first, I missed the opportunity in 2018 because I was just a starter but landed an opportunity to represent the country in Spain in 2019 where I finished eighth,” she recalled. There was an opportunity to represent the country in the Netherlands in 2020 but the event was cancelled because of Covid-19. Now the Egypt opportunity just presented itself and look, I brought home gold,” she explained. The soft spoken athlete has called upon fellow ladies to join the sport terming it ‘fun’. “You can’t believe I started this for fun, I used to stay long hours in office on my computer, which was health hazardous, I started cycling for fun and later met with friends in Karen who advised me to join triathlon, it has been an amazing journey, I want to encourage many women to join this game, it’s fun, it keeps you fit at the same time. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys