Raila Odinga, the leader of the ODM Party, has hinted at collaborating with his former running mate Kalonzo Musyoka in a bid for the country’s top job in 2022. Raila, speaking at the burial of former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile, said he will work with the Wiper party boss to ensure Kenya’s leadership transitions into the right hands. “Mimi na Kalonzo hatuwezi kosana,” Raila said. “Mimi na Kalonzo tutashikana tutoe hawa wezi, fisi waliovalia ngozi ya kondoo.” Raila accused several shadowy leaders of stealing from the public coffers, slowing Kenya’s development, during a ceremony dominated by politics. “It is not that we do not pay tax, it is not like Kenya does not have enough revenue, its only that a few people in leadership positions steal the money,” he said. When he takes office, the former Prime Minister has promised to follow in the footsteps of the late Pombe Magufuli, promising to eradicate corruption in just five years. Also Read: “These people steal from the public then return here to seek prominence using stolen funds, we will eradicate that,” Raila said. At the same time, he clashed with former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga over his criticism of President Uhuru Kenyatta, highlighting the growing schism between the Judiciary and the Executive. Raila claims Mutunga lacks the ability to speak of injustice because of how the court he presided over ruled in the presidential petition in 2013. “We have stood for justice, myself and Kalonzo. In 2013, we took evidence of electoral theft, they said we were late. Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga dismissed us, now he is pontificating about justice….” Raila said. According to Raila, Mutunga denied them Justice in 2013 when they appealed the Presidential results and therefore, does not have the range to lecture anyone on justice. On matters constitutional amendments through the BBI, Raila asked the Kenyan clergy to steer clear of the matter and leave it to politicians. The fate of the BBI Bill is now in the hands of the Appellate Court, after the High Court ruled that it was unconstitutional. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys