The FKF Cup will have a new champion this season after holders Bandari FC were ousted at the quarter-final stage by the competition’s dark horses Equity FC who won 1-0 at Ruaraka Grounds, Nairobi on Wednesday. Sande Katumba scored the all-important goal as the Division Side continued their sensational run. They will now face AFC Leopards, who beat Tusker FC 1-0 later Wednesday, in the semi-finals on Saturday. Katumba was left with the easiest of tap ins for his winner after Bandari goalkeeper Justin Ndikumana collided with the post from Nicholas Odhiambo’s cross and the ball bounced back for the Ugandan to roll home. The former Nairobi City Stars striker expressed his joy with the match winning goal saying it was his dream to take the team to the latter stage of the cup. “I spoke to my wife this morning back in Uganda and promise her a goal which I am a happy person after I delivered,” he said. Bandari will rue their first half chances with William Wadri and Abdallah Hassan both guilty of missing from one-on-one situations with Equity goalkeeper Ngugi Timothy who pulled a man-of-the-match performance. Also Read: Leopards and Tusker faced off in the highlight clash of the quarters pairings with captain Isaac Kipyegon’s first half penalty proving the decider. After a tepid start, Leopards were awarded a penalty in the 33rd minute after Clyde Senaji’s shot was handled in the penalty area by Rodgers Aloro and Kipyegon made no mistake from the spot. Tusker’s in-form striker Henry Meja endured a forgettable afternoon, missing clear scoring opportunities and shooting wide past John Oyemba who had less duties between the posts. Speaking after booking a semifinal slot AFC Leopards head coach Patrick Aussems congratulated the fighting spirit from his boys despite lamenting on the state of the Ruaraka pitch. “Yes I am happy we have won but not happy with the ground, I hope they will give us better pitch in the next round,” Aussems said. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys