The long awaited Kenya Cup rugby action will resume tomorrow with four games lined up in Nairobi and Nakuru respectively, after last weekend’s postponement. This comes over a month since the Government allowed the restart of sports activities in the country, which had been suspended in March due to a surge in COVID-19 infections. In Nairobi varsity side Strathmore Leos will make a short trip to the home of rugby RFUEA grounds where they are scheduled to play Kenya Harlequins in a 1pm kickoff, followed by defending champions KCB against Nondescript’s RFC at the same venue at 3:00pm. While the big boys of Kenya rugby will be battling it out in Nairobi, in Nakuru, newly promoted Masinde Muliro University (MMUST) will be playing taking on Menengai Oilers in from 1:00pm. Nakuru RFC will play host to Mwamba RFC from 3:00pm with both teams fighting for a playoff position towards the end of the legue. Mwamba are currently homeless and have been looking for a new home after they were ordered to vacate Nairobi Railway Club in September last year to create room for construction of the new bus park and the Nairobi Expressway. Also Read: The Kenya Cup was scheduled for Saturday 12 June 2021 but KRU postponed the resumption in honour of former Kenya 7s legend, the late Benjamin Ayimba. “In honour of departed Kenyan rugby legend Benjamin Ayimba, fixtures set for 12 June 2021 are postponed. League action resumes on Saturday 19 June 2021,” read a statement by Kenya Cup. Ayimba was laid to rest last week in Siaya County in a ceremony attended by family members, the rugby fraternity and close friends Due to the postponement, the Kenya Cup will now resume with game six fixtures, while the postponed games will be played at a later date. The next one month will be action packed for rugby fraternity after Saturday’s resumption,  with the national teams preparing for different assignments in the rugby calendar. Kakamega based Kabras Sugar currently tops the Kenya Cup league followed closely by rivals KCB Rugby, both teams having won all their opening fixtures before the government’s suspension of all sporting activities. Timothy Okwemba of Menengai Oilers currently tops the top point’s scorer and try scorer consecutively, with four tries to his name and a total of 20 points accumulated. KCB duo of Martin Owilla and Micheal Wanjala follow Okwemba closely with two tries each. Match Day 6: Saturday 19, June, 2021 Menengai Oilers v Masinde Muliro 1.00pm, Nakuru Athletic Club Nakuru RFC v Mwamba, 3.00pm, Nakuru Athletic Club Blak Blad v Resolution Impala Saracens, 1.00pm, Impala Club postponed Nondescripts v KCB, 3.00pm, RFUEA Strathmore Leo’s v Kenya Harlequins Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys