Tension is high in Madowale village on the Isiolo – Wajir border following the killing of five people by suspected bandits who attacked the village on Saturday night. Isiolo County Commissioner Herman Shambi who confirmed the incident says the attackers also burnt down Dololo Wachu borehole generator before escaping. The victims were shot dead by the attackers who also burnt down a borehole generator with police confirming that the source of conflict was a fight over pasture. “Inasikitisha kwamba hata wakachoma mahali hiyo borehole iko na maji huwa hainyimwi kila mtu anakubaliwa kutumia maji na lazima walioharibu watengeneza,” the County Commisioner Harman Shambi said. During the late night attack two other people were also injured … Shambi attributing the rise in cases of insecurity in the area to lack of police officers … “Kumekuwa na vitisho vitisho hapa na pale watu wetu wanaenda uko wanaleta fujo hao wanakuja huku kwa hivyo ni kama marevenge tu … Huko tulikuwa tumweka askari lakini wakati wa floods mpaka nyumba za askari kwa maana zilikuwa ni hema zikabebwa ikabidi tumewahamisha,” Shambi added. A contingent of police officers led by Isiolo Police Commander Joseph Kigen have been deployed in the area to restore calm. Isiolo County leaders have condemned the attack blaming police officers over what they said was laxity in responding to attacks “We challenge Interior CS Matiangi to take action against errant officers who are suspected to be facilitating the bandit attack”, Rehema Jaldesa, the Woman Rep, Isiolo county said on Sunday. Communities in Isiolo County residing in areas bordering Wajir Samburu, Garissa and Meru have for the last six months experienced attacks which has led to loss of lives with the focus now turning on security agencies to find a lasting solution to the perennial fights linked to pasture, water and land. Police officers are pursuing the attackers .  Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys