Nzoia Sugar Chairman Evans Kadenge has called upon Football Kenya Federation (FKF) to help them find a suitable venue for their home matches. Kadenge’s request comes shortly after the government imposed strict Covid-19 measures in 13 Lake Region counties banning movement into the counties in Western Kenya and Nyanza regions. The ban forced FKF to postpone all the matches in those regions. “We have just begun the week and so we want to ask the Federation to give us the way forward. You know playing all home matches in away venues will be very hard for us because this is very expensive. This will force us to cough extra coins for the team to camp because all the banned venues are those closer to us”, Kadenge said. On Thursday, health CS Mutahi Kagwe declared Busia, Vihiga, Kisii, Nyamira, Kakamega, Kericho, Bomet, Bungoma, Trans NZOIA, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori as Covid-19 hotspots. Also Read: According to Kadenge, this is a big challenge and so wants FKF to fund them if they are to use Narok stadium for home matches. “If we had a venue closer to us for our home matches like Eldoret’s Kipchoge Keino stadium then that could be reason enough. But look at this scenario where we only have Narok as the only option, that is very far unless the federation will be willing to chip in something to take care of the expenses of the Western to play all our home matches on an away venue,” Kadenge added. Nzoia are placed 14th with 17 points and are scheduled to play Nairobi City Stars this Friday. Other teams affected by the ban are; Vihiga United, Western Stima and Kakamega Homeboyz from the Football Kenya Federation Premier League. In the National Super League, teams like Vihiga Bullets, Migori Youth, Shababana, Gusii FC, Soi United will have to relocate to either Narok Stadium or Nairobi. Moreover, the ban has also hit the Kenya Women Premier League, FKF division one and two plus the county leagues which have all been suspended. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys