League leaders Tusker FC suffered a major setback after their dream of opening up a five-point gap at the summit of the league table went up in smoke Tuesday evening at the Ruaraka grounds in Nairobi losing by a solitary goal to a hard-drilled Posta Rangers. Substitute Josephat Lopaga scored the all-important goal with 13 minutes with left on the clock to seal the win, leaving Tusker on 38 points from 19 matches. Second-placed KCB, on 36 points, have a chance of dislodging Tusker from the top should they win their game at hand. Earlier on at the same venue Nairobi City Stars came from a goal down to beat Western Stima 2-1 while in Mombasa home team Bandari were gunned down 3-1 by visiting military men Ulinzi Stars. At Ruaraka Western Stima’s efforts for the opening goal bore fruit through an assist from Baron Oketch to Rodgers Ouma who tapped into the net. After the break Erick Ombija levelled the scores from close range for Nairobi City Stars in the 85th minute before Peter Opiyo converted from the spot giving Nairobi City Stars the win. At the Mbraki Sports Club Coast side Bandari FC fell flat to the soldiers. Also Read: John Kago of Ulinzi broke the deadlock with the first goal in the 7th minute, after a well-coordinated move by Elvis Khandoro that saw his left side powerful shot send Justin Ndikumana the wrong way. In the 36th minute, Boniface Onyango entered into the score sheet with a second goal after converting a penalty awarded after Masuta Masita was brought down in the box by Bandari’s Brian Otieno. By half time, the home side were trailing by two goals in the thrilling encounter. Changes made by Bandari coach Andre Casabungo to substitute Umar Kasumba for Collins Agade in the second half bore fruits after Kasumba was brought down in the penalty box by George Omondi, and William Wadri converted with relative ease. However, the soldiers didn’t panic and were at it again with a third goal, Omar Boraafya shaking the net in the 52 minute to sum up a miserable afternoon for the home side. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys