National Super League (NSL) side Modern Coast Rangers are facing an uncertain future after a series of poor results since the league restart. This has left them dangling on the drop zone after initially staging a promising start to the season. Their narrow 1-0  victory over Migori Youth on Wednesday perhaps provided little respite for a side that saw their manager Mohammed Mchule almost walk away last month after failing to agree with the management on personal terms. However after  further engagements with the management, an agreement was reached that Mchule carries on with his coaching  duties for the remainder of the season before he can explore available options. Coincidentally, the team won on his return thereby underlining his impact on the team that seemed destined to challenge for the title in the first leg only to backpedal after he stepped aside. Now it seems he has a Herculean task of elevating the Refinery Grounds based side higher on the log and survival should be their primary objective in the remaining two months before the season concludes. In a conversation with Citizen Digital, Mchule is adamant his side has the ingredients to turn their season around more so after their injured players rejoined the squad after close to a month in the rehabilitation room. Also Read: “I’m happy to have come back and I will immediately set out to ensure that we are safe. “Many of the injured players have returned to the playing unit and we could not get a better boost.” Their  win against Migori Youth propelled them to 16th and are a victory away from the 12th position currently occupied by Migori Youth FC who have garnered 28 points after 23 rounds of play. Coy on future But what about his future? He is coy as to whether he will extend his tenure beyond the current campaign insisting that his primary focus at the moment is steering his side to safety. “That is something that we will discuss once the season is over. If we can agree it will be for the best of the team.” Rangers will be aiming for their second victory on the trot when they travel to second-placed Kenya Police who are winless in their last five games with Rangers winning the reverse fixtures 2-1. Midweek Results Fortune Sacco 2-1 Gusii Soy United 0-0 Murang’a Seal Mwatate United 2-2 APS Bomet Talanta 1-1 MCF Coast Stima 0-5 Vihiga Bullets Modern Coast Rangers 1-0 Migori Youth Kisumu Hot Stars 0-0 Kenya Police Nairobi Stima 2-3 Kibera Black Stars Mt. Kenya United 4-3 Kisumu Allstars Shabana 2-0 Silibwet Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys