Shabana tactician Robert Ojienda has urged his charges to quickly turn their focus to their upcoming assignment against Mt Kenya United after suffering a blow in their promotion hunt following their 2-1 loss in the hands of Kibera Black Stars who leapfrogged them to third on the National Super League log. The glamour boys were made to pay for their slow start into the game with the hosts, Black Stars, punishing their slow defending to collect all points on offer. While terming it as their most realistic chance to secure the much needed promotion slot, Ojienda says the team needs to keep its focus to mount a sustainable title chase. “We had gone six games unbeaten and our opponents looked sharper than us in the opening half. “I kept encouraging them not to let our good run count for nothing because we know what our season objective is.” Against Mt Kenya, the Gusii stadium based side will come up against a side that has found winning hard to come by as they are currently rocked in the relegation zone, just a point adrift of safety. Also Read: However, Ojienda says the league is competitive adding that they will go focused to get all the points. “The league is very tough and you cannot afford to be complacent. Earlier in the season, we lost to Soy United who is the last team in the division.” With many of the weekend fixtures suspended as many teams in the 13 counties categorized as Covid-19 red zones could not stage home matches. This can be seen as a lost opportunity for Shabana to overtake second-placed Kenya Police. Nyaberi whose side defeated Nairobi Stima 1-0 on Sunday is confident his side can finish among the best teams in the second tier. “I’m glad the lads have picked up form when it matters. We initially struggled but right now we can score and defend our lead.” With 23 matches played so far, Ken Kenyatta’s Football Club Talanta are at the summit of the NSL log with 41 points while Soy United is 20th with 18 points. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys