Jomo Kenyatta, Moi, Kisumu and Eldoret international Airports have joined the Airport Carbon Accreditation programme, achieving Level 1 “Mapping” accreditation, the Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) has announced. In a statement issued on Monday, KAA said the four Kenyan airports are the first airports in East and Central Africa to join the Airport Carbon
Accreditation programme. “Reducing the effects of our operations on the environment is an important goal for us. It is our responsibility to future generations to engage in efforts that counter climate change. This accreditation is an important step in the right direction for our main airports, as the Airport Carbon Accreditation programme provides a framework to optimize and, eventually, minimize emissions,” KAA Acting MD, Alex Gitari said, while commenting on the accreditation. Owned by Airports Council International, the Airport Carbon Accreditation programme is the only institutionally-endorsed, global carbon management programme for airports. The program assesses and recognizes the efforts of airports to manage and reduce their carbon emissions through six levels of certification: ‘Mapping’, ‘Reduction’, ‘Optimization’, ‘Neutrality’, ‘Transformation’ and ‘Transition’. It provides airports with a common framework for active carbon management, utilizing measurable goals. Also Read: It strives to enable the airport industry to effectively reduce its carbon footprint, and to benefit from increased efficiency through lowered energy consumption. In 2019, KAA launched its going green initiative with a goal of becoming the greenest airport operator in Africa by 2022. The initiative is in line with the authority’s 2018-2022 strategic plan which highlight’s environmental stewardship as one of its main strategic areas with a goal of obtaining ISO 14001-2015: Environmental Management System (EMS) Standard. Airport Carbon Accreditation is an independent programme administered by WSP, an international consultancy appointed by ACI to enforce the accreditation criteria for airports on an annual basis. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys