President Kenyatta has now declared that no Kenyan will be forced to take the COVID-19 vaccination, which will be provided free of charge to all adults by the government. The Head of State who announced a slew of revised containment measures on Tuesday was addressing what he claimed were ‘certain theories about vaccination and its effects’ that have been formed by some Kenyans. “Some Kenyans have formed certain theories about vaccination and its effects. Although vaccination is free-of-charge and no one will be forced to get it, some education about it is crucial,” President Kenyatta said on Tuesday. With Kenya set to roll out mass inoculation in July, President Kenyatta posits that the country has the potential to reach herd immunity’ in which the dangers of one infected Kenyan will not spread unchecked to a community of people. “We can also build ‘herd instinct’ in our communities. If ‘herd immunity’ is meant to respond to an attack, ‘herd instinct’ is meant to anticipate the attack and stop it. And this can only be achieved through vaccination and vaccine education.” the Head of State said. He urged the Inter-Faith Council to take up vaccine education and be a central plank of the upcoming vaccination drive, in collaboration with private sector partners and other civic associations. ” This way, we will build the ‘herd immunity’ and ensure that the instinct of communities to survive is high,” he added. At the same time, President Kenyatta announced a plan to set up a Human Vaccine Centre in Kenya to elevate the country as a producer for both human and veterinary vaccines. “Our long-term strategy is to set up a Human Vaccine Centre. I have directed a multi-agency Team to activate this plan and to focus not only on the COVID-19 Vaccine, but on any other human vaccine needed in our region,” said Mr. Kenyatta. “The national quest to produce human vaccines here in Kenya will elevate our nation as a producer for both human and veterinary vaccines that we currently supply to Eastern Africa, all the way to Morocco in North Africa. Kenya plans to to vaccinate the entire Kenyan adult population of 26 million people by mid-2022 with 10 million set to be vaccinated by December of this year. The President says this plan is different from the one the government had at the beginning of the year thanks to the purchase of 13 million doses of the single-shot Johnson and Johnson vaccines which arrive in August. “Our strategy was to vaccinate 10 million adults by June 2022 and approximately 16 million by June 2023,” announced the head of state. “Instead of vaccinating 10 million adults by June 2022, we will vaccinate the entire adult population of 26 million Kenyans by 2022. In fact, by Christmas this year, we intend to have vaccinated over 10 million adults.” According to the Head of State, the country will be vaccinating 150,000 people every day from August 2021 adding that this will help in the quest for ‘Herd Immunity’ against Covid-19. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy