Kabras Sugar have  beefed up their technical bench by roping in Kenya Harlequins coach Dominique Habimana to oversee the team’s youth project and also take charge of the team’s forwards. Speaking to Citizen Digital, Kabras chairman Philip Jalango refuted reports that Habimana had been brought on board to replace Zimbabwean Mzingaye Nyathi. Nyathi has been in his native country following the suspension of rugby in the country and is yet to return ahead of this weekend’s game against Blak Blad, at the Kakamega Showground. “All my coaching staff is around and going about with their duties as agreed and those writing false information without proper research just want to tarnish the good name of Kabras Sugar rugby,” Jalang’o said. Nyathi took charge of the sugar men in July last year following the exit of South African coach Henry Du Plessis and has guided the team to silverware in his first season as head coach, beating KCB to win the Charity Cup. “Yes, we’ve brought on board Habimana to help us with our youth project and strengthen our forwards with his vast experience in the game as we seek to compete and probably win the Kenya Cup,” he added. Also Read: Habimana, who is a highly successful and seasoned tactician, was part of the Kenya Harlequin’s coaching team that won the Kenya Cup in 2008 and Kenya Cup three-peat in 2010, 2011, 2012 respectively. Kabras have met rivals KCB RFC three times in a row in the Kenya Cup league finals with the Bankers proofing a hard nut to crack retaining the Kenya Cup in all the three occasions. The defending champions having successfully secured the Kenya Cup league for a third successive time after a 23-15 victory over Kabras Sugar in the final contested on 18 May 2019 at the Kakamega Show grounds. With rugby action set to resume this weekend, the quest for silverware for both teams set to take centre stage with both teams in action. The sugar men currently top the league followed closely by rivals KCB Rugby with both teams having won all their opening fixtures before the government’s suspension of all sporting activities. Kabras Sugar will host Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad at the Kakamega Showground while Resolution Impala Saracens host Mwamba at the Impala Club. Bottom of the table Strathmore Leos take on Kenya Harlequin in the day’s early kick off with hosts and defending champions KCB taking on Top Fry Nakuru in the 3.00pm kick off, with both games being played at the Ruaraka grounds. Kenya Cup is set to resume this weekend on 12 June following a protracted stoppage over COVID-19 challenges. Revised Kenya Cup Fixtures Saturday 12 June, 2021 Strathmore Leo’s v Kenya Harlequin, 1.00pm, KCB Sports Club KCB v Top Fry Nakuru, 3.00pm, KCB Sports Club Resolution Impala Saracens v Mwamba, 3.00pm, Impala Club Kabras Sugar v Blak Blad, 3.00pm, Kakamega Showground Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys