Education Cabinet Secretary Prof. George Magoha has officially launched the 2021 Form 1 selection and admission exercise, announcing that the reporting date for all students who sat their KCPE exam earlier this year will be August 2, 2021. Unveiling the Form 1 placement results at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) in Nairobi, Prof. Magoha reiterated that this year’s Form One selection was fully computerised right from national to sub county levels. “As such, there will be no selection of Form One candidates at sub county level as was the case in the past,” said Magoha. He pointed out that all candidates who sat the exam will be admitted to different schools across the country in line with the government’s policy of 100 per cent transition to secondary school. “Of the 1,179,192 candidates that sat the 2020 KCPE Examination, 1,171,265 have been placed in secondary schools. This is after excluding inmates, over age candidates, and candidates from refugee camps. We have therefore placed all candidates in secondary schools in keeping with our 100% transition policy from primary to secondary education,” said the CS. The majority of candidates who scored 400 marks and above were placed in National or Extra County schools of their choice with the Special Needs candidates being placed in the regular schools of their preference, while others were placed in special schools based on their disability categories on merit and choice. Also Read: The Education CS further highlighted that in this year’s selection exercise the Ministry had applied the affirmative action provision to open opportunities for a number of children from slums. “Through this, we managed to place an additional 667 learners from slums in urban areas in National and 22 Extra county schools. The slums identified under this arrangement were from Thika, Nyeri, Kisumu, Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru and Eldoret urban centres,” he said. Faith Mumo, the girl who emerged top in KCPE with 433 marks is set to join Kenya High School while the top male student; Wanyonyi Samuel, who scored 430 marks is expected to join Mang’u High School. Learners are required to text their index numbers to 22263 to know which high schools they have been admitted to. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys