Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Western branch is gearing up to become the second region to launch the Women’s Football Regional League after the Nairobi’s kicked off on Sunday at the Ligi Ndogo grounds. The region’s FKF National Executive Committee (NEC) member Tony Kweya said the league would be a launching pad for many untapped women football talents in the region, thus all the other regions should adopt it. The FKF official revealed they have already identified a potential sponsor and that they are planning to launch the league by the end of this month. “Western has laid the groundwork and I can confirm that our regional league will commence on June 26. I’m glad also to reveal that after rigorous search, we’ve identified a potential sponsor who is willing to come on board to offer support for the participating teams across the region,” Kweya told Citizen Digital. The regional league is the third tier league recently introduced by the federation with the overall winners earning promotion to the Division One League. The new league is set to become a springboard for the budding talents in the grassroots. On his part, Vihiga FKF branch chairman Kelvin Mwangu confirmed the registration of the regional league has already kicked off in the region, urging clubs to register in large numbers. Also Read: “The willing clubs are required to submit; Sh. 5000 FKF affiliation fee for four years, Sh. 200 players’ card and Sh. 500 for master card, for registration. Deadline for registration in Vihiga County will be on June 15, and thereafter we will meet to draw the fixtures before the kickoff,” said Mwangu. In Nairobi, the first season of the inaugural women’s regional league has attracted 12 teams and four matches were played during the league’s launch at Ligi Ndogo grounds where Uweza Women thumped Lexus Queens 10-0 to announce their intentions of bagging the maiden league. Also in the same venue, Beijing Raiders defeated City Queens 4-1 while Acakoro thrashed 7-0 Kariobangi Sports. Kenyatta University also started on a high note hitting 3-0 past Mrembo FC. The official launch was attended by the FKF vice-president Doris Petra, federation CEO Barry Otieno among other guests. Report by Sharon Vieliza Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys