Gor Mahia FC captain Harun Shakava has warned his side not to underestimate Wazito FC as they bid to take another step towards closing the gap on the FKF Premier League leaders KCB. Five points behind the Bankers -who have played an extra match- Gor Mahia head into Wednesday’s clash with the Francis Kimanzi’s side at Thika Municipal Stadium aiming to extend their remarkable winning run to 13 in all competitions. Shakava said on Tuesday, however, that the team can still go up a notch, warning his colleagues not to take anything for granted against Wazito who have blown cold and hot this season lying tenth on the log with 26 points. “There is a danger we might pat ourselves on the back for  winning eight league matches on the bounce and perhaps relax a bit against Wazito but that is not the way it is going to be. “It’s true we have enjoyed a great form recently that has seen us get to the Cup final and move places above the table. It’s very encouraging to the team and the fans but Wazito despite their recent struggles they can be very dangerous to play against. We won’t underestimate them and our aim is to get maximum points to close the gap at the top,” said Shakava. The defending champions have shipped in only one goal in the last six games in the league with the performance lifting the glamour club to position three on 37 points, five behind KCB, and Shakava says is also wary of any complacency creeping into the squad. Also Read: “Our aim remains to retain the league title and represent the country in the CAF Champions League and that’s why we need to take every game seriously. “We are not thinking about the cup final against AFC Leopards. We will cross the bridge when we get there. We just want to take one game at a time,” he added. In other FKF PL Wednesday fixtures, Tusker FC will be eyeing to reclaim the top spot when they take on relegation-threatened Western Stima at Ruaraka Grounds. The Brewers are one point behind KCB who play Kakamega Homeboyz on Friday. Elsewhere, AFC Leopards will play. Mathare United Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy