Motorsport throughout the world is governed by the FIA under the international sporting code. Kenya is bound by this code, and KMSF is both responsible for upholding and enforcing this code, and anyone who takes part in any motor sport event in Kenya submits to this code. One of the cardinals of this code forbids any action, which is prejudicial to the interests of motor sports. The weight of this rule is indicated by the penalties for breaching it: suspension and or fine up to Sh. 1 million. Among the actions that constitute a breach of the code are baseless, racial and defamatory attacks on the motor sport establishments or KMSF and its appointed agents through the press and any media including, print, electronic, social media or any other source which would bring disrepute. Any competitor seen more than five (5) meters off the designated route by judge of fact or captured in the tracking shall be penalised as follows: First offence – 10 minutes time penalty while second offense attracts exclusion from the event, Sh20,000 fine and reported for disciplinary action. Signing-on
Both the crews must sign-on at rally secretariat before start of reconnaissance for insurance purposes. No competitor will be allowed to start reconnaissance or main event if this procedure if not complete. Outside assistance Also Read: A competitor cannot be towed out of a special stage or liaison section unless they are retired from the event, and contravention of above is disqualification.
Competitors cannot receive parts, fuel, parts from their service crew or others, unless it’s in designated service zones. Crew
A crew is made up of two persons on board each car nominated as driver and co-driver. Unless otherwise stated, either member of the crew may drive during the rally and each one must hold a KMSF driver’s competition license for the current year, which is valid for the rally. The driver assumes the competitor’s responsibility when the latter is not on board the car during the rally. Reconnaissance cars The car must be painted in a single colour, with no advertising, stickers. Secondly, the underbody protection is authorized (complying with the Group regulations and two additional road-homologated headlamps are authorized. Any lateness exceeding 15 minutes of any individual target time or an accumulative lateness exceeding 30 minutes at the end of each section or of a leg will result in the competitor concerned being removed from the classification by the clerk of the course. The crew may nevertheless re-start the rally under the provisions specified for the relevant Championship, if applicable. In calculating such lateness, the actual time and not the penalty time (10 seconds per minute) applies. Early arrival shall under no circumstances permit crews to reduce the lateness. Exceeding the maximum permitted lateness may only be announced at the end of a section. Before the start of the competitive element of the rally, the organizers may assemble all the competing cars in a starting area, into which cars must be driven before the start time as detailed in the supplementary regulations. The exclusively pecuniary penalties for late arrival in the starting area shall be specified in the supplementary regulations. No service is allowed in the start area. Any crew reporting more than 15 minutes late at the start of a section shall not be allowed to start that section. By Anwar Sidi – Veteran Safari Rally Driver Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy