Gor Mahia head coach Manuel Vaz Pinto now says he is happy to set a date with traditional arch-rivals AFC Leopards in the FKF Cup final. According to Pinto, any coach would be happy to win in a competitive match, and playing against Leopards will be his happiest moment even as he has promised his fans to expect the trophy. ‘’This is the kind of final any coach, players and fans would wish to witness. It will be difficult for both of us but I can assure our fans that with their continued support, we will bring home the trophy,’’ asserted Vaz Pinto. Gor advanced to the finals courtesy of a 4-1 shoot-out triumph over Thika-based side Bidco United after a one-all stalemate in regulation time. This will be their first Cup final in the tournament since 2013 and a win will give them the sole CAF Confederations Cup ticket reserved for Kenya. The match ended with Gor reduced to ten men after right back Philemon Otieno was given marching orders for unsporting behavior. This means the former Kenyan International will miss the mouth-watering final set for July 4 at a venue yet to be decided. AFC Leopards also beat debutants Equity on post-match penalties after a barren stalemate in 90 minutes. Just like Gor, Leopards will be growling to lift the trophy to at least get back to the continental stage after many years in the cold. Also Read: Meanwhile coach Pinto explained his decision not to play Burundian International Jules Ulimwengu for the entire 90 minutes saying he recently contracted Covid-19 while on International duty for his home country and that the recovery process calls for enough rest. ‘’We cannot overwork him. The recovery process entails having enough rest and despite recovering fully, we need to mind his welfare and field other players. We need him more though.’’ The Portuguese tactician however decried the numerous goal-scoring chances that his boys failed to convert saying he intended to win in 90 minutes. According to Pinto, Bidco got a golden opportunity and converter. We made a number of mistakes and this made Bidco spoil our 90-minute win plan. We failed to utilize our chances hence ended up sharing spoils in regulation time. Just like Leopards, Gor is in contention for yet another continental ticket, the CAF Champions League which will be decided by the team that will be leading the log as of June 30, according to the local football governing body Football Kenya Football. Gor are currently 4th on the log just behind leaders Tusker, KCB and Leopards. Gor assistant coach Sammy Omollo ‘Pamzo’ is on record saying they are targeting every trophy ahead of them. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys