Kitui County Governor Charity Ngilu has called for the reunion of former NASA co-principals Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), and Moses Wetangula (Ford-Kenya) under one umbrella ahead of the 2022 polls. Governor Ngilu advised the four leaders to work together in the next General Election, cautioning that should all of them go at the country’s top seat on their own then they will all most likely lose, again. Ngilu narrated how she and Raila both lost the presidency in the 1992 and 1997 elections because they ran individually but only won in 2002 when they finally came together to back one candidate – Mwai Kibaki – who eventually clinched the seat despite being hospitalised at the time of the polls. “2017 tulikuwa NASA na kina Raila, Kalonzo, Musalia, Wetangula…na tulikuwa tunasema kuna vitu tunataka kufanyia Kenya yetu. Hiyo, kwa sababu Jubilee iliingia, haikufanyika. Na pia tulipata handshake, na wote wanne waliingia kwa hiyo handshake wakasema ‘tuko na wewe Uhuru Kenyatta,’” said the governor on Thursday morning on Radio Citizen’s ‘Jambo Kenya.’ “Sasa sai badala ya kusema hatukupata 2017 tunataka ukuje na sisi tufanye ile agenda tulikuwa nayo, kila mmoja anaongea lugha yake. Niliwaambiwa kila mmoja pekee yenu atakuwa hanged pekee yake, kwa hivyo ni vizuri washikane pamoja vile walikuwa ili tuunde serikali. Lakini mkikosa kuungana, for sure, kila mmoja wenu ataenda nje na atakuwa akiona hiyo nyumba ya State House kwa ViuSasa. That is the truth.” She further added: “Wakija pamoja, na naona sasa Gideon Moi pia ako nao, saa mbili na nusu watapeleka wale wengine nyumbani…lakini wakikosa, ni hao watapelekwa nyumbani.” Also Read: This comes a day after Kalonzo Musyoka, in an interview with NTV, swore that he will not support Raila for President in the forthcoming 2022 General Election. Without mincing his words, Kalonzo said he would be “the most stupid person on earth” to endorse the former premier for the third consecutive time. “For me, as of now, it is unthinkable that I, Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, would support Raila Odinga for the third time…. I would be the most stupid fellow on earth to go and support — for the third time — a presidential candidate without a measure of reciprocity,” said Kalonzo.  Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys