Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has declared that he will not support ODM leader Raila Odinga for President in the forthcoming 2022 General Election. Without mincing his words, Kalonzo in an interview with NTV said he would be “the most stupid person on earth” to endorse Mr. Odinga, who was his co-principal in the National Super Alliance (NASA), for the third consecutive time. “For me, as of now, it is unthinkable that I, Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, would support Raila Odinga for the third time…. I would be the most stupid fellow on earth to go and support — for the third time — a presidential candidate without a measure of reciprocity,” said Kalonzo. The Wiper Party leader accused the Odinga-led ODM Party of betrayal and causing the fallout in the NASA coalition which brought together Mr. Odinga of ODM, Kalonzo (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya). “The ball is in the court of ODM because they are the ones who killed it (NASA) during the by-election in Kibra when their own Secretary General announced that NASA is dead. The rest of us said it is not dead and it is still there on paper. It would take a miracle to rebuild that confidence,” said the Wiper leader. He maintains that any political negotiations he will have with Mr. Odinga would be done under the newly formed One Kenya Alliance that brings together Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi (KANU) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford-Kenya). Also Read: “At the age of 60 something right now if I don’t run, when do you expect I will run?” posed Kalonzo. The Wiper leader has been Odinga’s running mate in the last two elections — in 2013 and 2017 — both of which they were unsuccessful in clinching the country’s top job. Last week during the burial of former MP Kalembe Ndile, Mr. Odinga indicated that he was willing to talk and reach an agreement with Kalonzo. “Mimi na Kalonzo hatuezi kosana, tutakubaliana tu,” said Odinga, while responding to calls by Governor Charity Ngilu for NASA leaders to unite. Kalonzo’s hard-hitting remarks come in the face of political controversy stirred by an alleged plan by President Uhuru Kenyatta to support a candidate from the National Super Alliance (NASA). Kalonzo has however dismissed the said reports. “We were shocked to hear other people making issues out of it. I cannot remember hearing President Kenyatta say he will support a NASA candidate,” said Kalonzo. On Monday, during a meeting with Ukambani leaders at State House, President Kenyatta is reported to have urged Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, his National Super Alliance (NASA) allies and other political leaders to unite, suggesting that he could endorse them in 2022. The report has triggered a political fireball with Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday firing two twitter salvos directed at President Kenyatta over his preferred line-up in next year’s presidential race. While Ruto he did not mention the President by name, the DP questioned Kenyatta’s decision to reportedly back a successor outside of the Jubilee Party.   Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys