National Super League (NSL) giants Shabana head coach Robert Ojienda has heaped praise on his charges following their narrow 2-1 victory against an in-form Murang’a Seal at the St. Sebastian Park in Murang’a on Tuesday. Victory extended their unbeaten run to three matches after the league restart while maintaining their ascendancy in on the standings. The Gusii stadium-based side’s latest scalp against a side coached by their former coach Vincent Nyaberi helped them gain ground on their quest for a promotion berth as they temporarily jumped to fourth on log pending Wednesday’s fixtures. Ojienda was particularly impressed by their ability to see out the game despite Murang’a Seal’s relentless attacks in the dying moments of the game. “First of all, I want to thank my players for collecting three points away from home and also withstanding the pressure our opponents threw our way. “The boys have played very well in our last three games and I want to congratulate them for helping us climb up to fourth which was our ambition.” Also Read: One of the major highlights for Shabana in the last two games has been their focus, an element that he set out to achieve following their capitulation in the closing stages against MCF three weeks ago that denied them victory after being in control for the better part of the game. “We have won our last two games because our players have improved their concentration more so in the last quarter where we previously used to concede many goals.” The glamor boys will home to carry on with their impressive form when they will host third-placed Vihiga Bullets. Elsewhere Mwatate United coach Andrew Rix Kanuli is confident their weekend rest will help them overcome high-flying Vihiga Bullets. The Wundanyi-based side has found it had to replicate their bright start having failed to collect a single point after the league restart. Back-to-back victories against Murang’a Seal, Migori Youth, and FC Talanta have seen the once-promising side drop to seventh on the log. “We will give our all against Bullets because we understand they are a very good side. “Am hoping the weekend break has refreshed us because we need to get our season back on track.” Midweek Fixtures APS Bomet v Modern Coast Rangers – Bomet Stadium Vihiga Bullets v Mwatate United – Bukhungu Stadium Gusii United v Nairobi Stima- Awendo Green Kibera Black Stars v Soy United – Camp Toyoyo Kenya Police v Mt Kenya United – Migori Stadium Migori Youth v Kisumu Hot Stars – Bomet Stadium Silibwet Leon’s v Fortune Sacco-Bomet Stadium Kisumu All Stars v FC Talanta- Moi Stadium Kisumu MCF v Coast Stima – Ruaraka Grounds Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys