Maryanne Musangi, the late billionnaire businessman Chris Kirubi’s daughter, moved mourners gathered for the tycoon’s funeral at his Bendor Farm on Saturday to tears with an emotional tribute. Maryanne says she grew up cherishing every moment she spent with her father, who was almost always out of town for work. “The words about my father are indescribable, growing up I didn’t understand why I can’t have him for myself.” Maryanne said on Saturday “I knew he adored me and that was good enough,” She remembers feeling incredibly clever after forcing him out of his office seat and sitting on it whenever she visited him at his office in town. Maryanne claims that when she was 12, she was carted off to Europe for school, along with her cousin, against the wishes of her mother and family back home. “Being away in Europe with my cousin Susan and I missed him, my mum, my cousins and I thought why did he do this to me,” Maryanne reminsced. In retrospect, Maryanne believes that her early exposure especially the stay in Europe, and particularly her knowledge of French, helped her land a job working for Coca-Cola in Morocco ten years later. “He was willing to sacrifice sending me away so that I could get a strong foundation so that in future I could better my life, my family life and the nation,” she said. During her tribute, she recalled her late father’s four-year battle with cancer, saying the ordeal left her father- a tenacious fighter by all standards- weaker and his family emotionally drained. “He brutal fought this disease called cancer which was difficult. We were emotionally exhausted, it was unthinkable what he was going through. He fought very very hard,” she told mourners on Saturday. While promising to carry on her father’s legacy, Maryanne revealed that plans to establish the Chris Kirubi Foundation were well underway. The foundation will bolster Education and Mentorship, Health (Diabetes and Cancer), Technology (Innovations) and Agriculture sectors. She also revealed that President Uhuru Kenyatta, who was informed of the plan, supported it when he visited the family to express his condolences. “His Excellency did pass by the house and I talked with him and we talked about this foundation. I think I sold the idea well to the president.,” she added “I promise to do my best and when I’m stuck I will seek those in this gathering. Your legacy will never be forgotten. I love you daddy” Kirubi died on June 14, some four years after he was diagnosed with cancer. According to an excerpt from his eulogy, he sought treatment in the United States and locally since then, but the sickness deteriorated. Despite his early prognosis, his family claims that he had a higher quality of life than most. However, in early 2021, he became ill, and after a few treatment sessions, doctors determined that the condition had progressed too far. On Monday, surrounded by his family, Kirubi who rose up the ranks; from a humble gas salesman to a billionaire, died of breathing complications. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys