Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Women Premier League playoffs will be held on Saturday in Nakuru, following the conclusion of the 16-team zonal league last weekend. The top clubs in 2020/2021 season and the second placed ones from both zones A and B will play against the third placed teams in the first round of the playoffs this Saturday. First round winners will then tackle top teams from each zone (Vihiga Queens and Thika Queens) in the semifinals on June 25. The final will be staged on June 27, where the overall winner will be determined. This weekend’s playoffs will see Gaspo play Wadadia at the ASK grounds Nakuru from 1pm as Nakuru Queens entertain Ulinzi Starlets at the same venue from 3.15pm. Ulinzi’s head coach Joseph Wambua is optimistic of registering good results. Also Read: “We are aiming for a win against our opponents Nakuru. I know it will not be easy to beat them but I will rely on the proper preparations I have had so far. I’m urging my girls to stay calm and give it to their all,” he said. Wambua is already looking forward to next season’s campaign, which with the expected merger of the two zones, will be a new experience all together. “We understand that we shall have one unified league next season and we don’t want to miss. I fought hard to clinch zone A leadership but unfortunately Thika Queens were very strong,” he noted. With a more competitive season expected after the playoffs, the coach says he will have to add new quality players in his team. “After the playoffs we must bolster our squad so that we can come very strong next season. I’m also urging the federation to continue supporting the women clubs, there are so many talents our here which need to be supported, through clubs,” concluded Wambua.  Playoffs fixtures Saturday Gaspo Women vs Wadadia (ASK Grounds Nakuru, 1pm) Nakuru Queens vs Ulinzi Starlets (ASK Grounds Nakuru, 3.15pm) Friday Vihiga Queens vs Gaspo Women/Wadadia (ASK Grounds Nakuru, 1pm) Thika Queens vs Nakuru Queens/Ulinzi Starlets (ASK Grounds Nakuru, 3.15pm) Sunday Winner Match No. 3 vs Winner Match No. 4 (ASK Grounds Nakuru, 2pm) Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys