Kamar Etyang is happy with the credentials of his 1,500m counterparts ahead of next week World Under 20 Championships at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani Etyang was at Kasarani on Wednesday morning to intensify his training under the guidance of head coach Robert Ngisirei. The 19-year-old Eating was included in the team last weekend to replace Emmanuel Lemama who picked an injury in training. The Iten-based athlete was hard at work yesterday with the games barely a week away. The event was postponed from last year due to the Coronavirus virus pandemic. “This is a huge opportunity for me to run for Kenya on an international stage,” said Etyang. “I have grabbed it with open arms because I want to fly Kenya’s flag high next week,” he added. Also Read: The men’s 1,500m has been pencilled for the opening day (August 17) of the event at 9:45 am with the finals set for two days later. “I have absolutely no doubt that with the team we have, we will do well. I will be teaming up with Vincent Keter, who is also a very talented athlete. I have raced with him severally and I know we can do it,” said Etyang. Coach Ngisirei was full praise for Etyang, whose determination to do well was evident in training. “He is an athlete on a mission. He has an edge because he is equally very disciplined—one of the key attribute that makes a good runner,” said the coach. Etyang says he holds no grudges despite having missed on the opportunity to represent Kenya at the Tokyo Olympic Games. “I have moved on from that sad part of my life. Right now, I am focused on representing Kenya and my target is to win gold,” he added. After the championships, he hopes to travel to Poland for a weekend meeting at the end of the month as he seeks to break the junior 1000m record. On Sunday, AK youth development chairman Barnaba Korir, announced that Lemama had requested to withdraw from the team after picking an injury. “Lemama requested to be replaced after sustaining an injury and we assessed the situation and saw it fit to replace him with Etiang who was unlucky not to participate in the Olympic Games due to the Athletics Integrity Unit rules,” said Korir. In February, Etyang who hails from Lodwar, in Turkana County was selected to represent Kenya at the postponed African Cross Country Championships in Lome, Togo. Etyang recently finished second in 1500m at a weekend meeting in Kampala, Uganda in 3:36.80. Kamar Etyang is happy with the credentials of his 1,500m counterparts ahead of next week World Under 20 Championships at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani Etyang was at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday morning to intensify his training under the guidance of head coach Robert Ngisirei. The 19-year-old Eating was included in the team last weekend to replace Emmanuel Lemama who picked an injury in training. The Iten-based athlete was hard at work yesterday with the games barely a week away. The event was postponed from last year due to the Coronavirus virus pandemic. “This is a huge opportunity for me to run for Kenya on an international stage,” said Etyang. “I have grabbed it with open arms because I want to fly Kenya’s flag high next week,” he added. The men’s 1,500m has been penciled for the opening day (August 17) of the event at 9:45 am with the finals set for two days later. “I have absolutely no doubt that with the team we have, we will do well. I will be teaming up with Vincent Keter, who is also a very talented athlete. I have raced with him severally and I know we can do it,” said Etyang. Coach Ngisirei was full praise for Etyang, whose determination to do well was evident in training. “He is an athlete on a mission. He has an edge because he is equally very disciplined—one of the key attribute that makes a good runner,” said the coach. Etyang says he holds no grudges despite having missed on the opportunity to represent Kenya at the Tokyo Olympic Games. “I have moved on from that sad part of my life. Right now, I am focused on representing Kenya and my target is to win gold,” he added. After the championships, he hopes to travel to Poland for a weekend meeting at the end of the month as he seeks to break the junior 1000m record. On Sunday, AK youth development chairman Barnaba Korir, announced that Lemama had requested to withdraw from the team after picking an injury. “Lemama requested to be replaced after sustaining an injury and we assessed the situation and saw it fit to replace him with Etiang who was unlucky not to participate in the Olympic Games due to the Athletics Integrity Unit rules,” said Korir. In February, Etyang who hails from Lodwar, in Turkana County was selected to represent Kenya at the postponed African Cross Country Championships in Lome, Togo. Etyang recently finished second in 1500m at a weekend meeting in Kampala, Uganda in 3:36.80. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy