Tusker FC head coach Robert Matano has hailed the passion demonstrated by his players as the reason behind their success this term. The brewers bagged their 12th league title and the first in five years on Sunday ending Gor’s dominance. Speaking on Citizen TV’s sports magazine show,  Sporty Monday on Monday,  Matano said he believes the team has what it takes to dominate Football Kenya Federation Premier League for many years to come because of the good structures at the club. “My players were fantastic, they gave everything during the season, the love this club and I believe come next season no team will be better that us ,” he said. “We have to plan on how we will be able to balance the league and the continental championship and believe we will give our best against other African teams, ”said Matano. Tusker won their 12th league title on Sunday beating Bidco United 2-0 at the Utali grounds in Nairobi to break the dominance of Gor Mahia and the veteran tactician says his plan is to prepare a team that will compete against the ‘best’ in the CAF Champions League next season. “We have to start preparing as  early as possible, we have proper structures at the club that allow the team to perform and I’ m sure we will be able to strengthen the team properly, with the aim of defending the title and competing at our best in champions league ,”stated Matano. Also Read: Club captain Eugine Asike added that the great support from their sponsors during the hard times of Covid-19 gave them the inspiration to fight for the title and make them happy. Hee believes they will be able to defend the crown come next term. “We are lucky to have such a sponsor who has stood with us in hard times,” he said. “We have seen how many teams have struggled, this season that has been different for us so our aim is to continue making them happy by winning many titles in future ,”Asike told Citizen TV. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis