Gor Mahia sporting director Lordvic Aduda has jumped to the defence of the the club’s executive telling off the critical fans. According to Aduda, the club fans should spare the office the flak since they are the ones who elected the current leadership and should shoulder an equal portion of blame. ‘’I am disturbed by the persistent attacks on the office on social media. They did not elect themselves to the office. Those making noise on social media are the same ones who gave them the mandate,’’ observed Aduda. The former Gor CEO, now serving as sporting director said KOgalo is a big team that cannot be run by mere noise, noting that instead of the criticism, the fans should give constructive ideas on how to better the club. “We all know the weak financial muscle of Gor. We may not be in position to attract some of the best talents, pay and maintain them with our current financial situation. They will need constant salary and allowance payments,” he said, adding that, “This can only be possible when we have money.” Rachier and his office have been walking a tight financial rope with the club accounts almost empty following a lack of steady financial flow. Also Read: This state of affairs has heightened calls for him to exit the stage after more than 10years at the helm. But according to Aduda, Gor fans should emulate their Yanga counterparts who have been in handy to the team, citing the huge attendance of the club’s fans day held last weekend that saw the club faithful fill the 60,000 National Stadium in Dar. He argues that it is only through such support that Gor can raise more revenue and not constant insults on social media. ‘’Why can’t they emulate Yanga fans? Some of critics are not even registered members and have not supported the club in any way yet they are the most vocal on social media,” Aduda wondered. Recently, former Gor tactician Dylan Kerr came to the defence of Chairman Ambrose Rachier saying he has made the club ‘the most popular’ in the country, laughing off claims of under-performance on the part of the club boss. Under Rachier, Gor have been to four consecutive CAF Champions League competitions but success on the pitch has not been reflected on investments. “The chairman has of late been under attack from the public but they need to understand that taking a team to the CAF Champions League for four consecutive years is not a joke. They need to know that there are two sides of a coin and both make the coin,’’ Kerr who won the title with Gor between 2018 and 2019 said. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis