Former Gor Mahia head coach Dylan Kerr says lack of sponsorships and poor sports policies are among the drawbacks to the development of football in Kenya. Speaking exclusively to Citizen Digital from his South African base, Kerr said after the betting firm which was sponsoring Gor Mahia, AFC Leopards, and the national teams pulled the plug on all its sports sponsorships in Kenya in 2019, it is when the sport went off the rails. According to Kerr, it was only when Gor Mahia had the giant betting firm as their sponsor that they were able to play against English teams in the United Kingdom and on East African soil. ”There is no team that can perform without a sponsor. Players and the technical bench need salaries and allowances. For Kenyan teams to perform, they need to get serious sponsors. The withdrawal of Gor Mahia betting firm sponsor some years back marked the beginning of trouble at the club,’’ lamented Kerr, who is currently managing Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila FC. Kerr, also attributed Harambee Stars’ qualification to the 2018 African Cup of Nations edition for the first time after a 16-year drought, to the availability of a reliable sponsor then. According to the English tactician, the South African clubs have had success thanks to the huge finances pumped into the game by title sponsor DSTV which gives each team Sh. 21.7 million. Also Read: Other than the monthly grants, each team also has a strong individual sponsor to beef up their accounts. “The grants given to South African teams every month is good money. It may not be enough to meet all the team’s needs but it is a good step in the right direction. 3 million South African Rands per month per team is a big boost to any club.’’ He said the local federation should have in place good policies to attract potential sponsors and invest heavily on youth development as a way of ensuring continuity in the sport. “It is not healthy for a team like Gor Mahia to walk around with begging bowls every time they qualify for African championships. The team needs to be financially stable in order to make a mark. The federation needs to support its clubs through sourcing for strong title sponsors,’’ added Kerr. The British coach led the former FKF PL champions in two friendly matches against English Premier League sides Everton and Hull City before he left. He also led K’ogalo to the CAF Confederations Cup group stage where they were eliminated by Algeria’s USM Alger with Rwandese side APR taking the second last eight slot from the group after winning against Tanzaniá side Yanga in the last match day of the group stage.  In demonstration of his love for Gor Mahia, the former tactician said he got a Gor Mahia tattoo, a life-long sign that Kogalo’s memories will forever be imprinted. “Medals are won and hidden for safety purposes, but this tattoo is a permanent mark that reminds me of the team I loved most. I don’t intend to erase it whatsoever. Gor Mahia will forever remain in my mind.’’ The tactician, however, says he does not see a situation where he can came back to coach any Kenyan team even though he does not rule it out completely. He decried situations where budding footballers in Kenya with talents play tournaments barefooted. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis