Gor Mahia captain Haron Shakava has said they are not taking lightly the remaining league matches despite the title being out of sight this season. According to Shakava, the continental assignment ahead of them is a serious business and needs a lot of training hence seriousness in the remaining league matches. ‘’We have to be serious with the remaining matches. Seriousness in the remaining league matches is equivalent to training and preparation ahead of the CAF Confederations Cup,’’ said Shakava. Gor Mahia yesterday won their first league match after going seven matches without a win. This was also the first with their new coach Mark Harrison in charge. The tactician, on unveiling, had promised to return Gor to winning ways. The lone goal was scored by Sydney Ochieng’ from a free-kick with the visitors wasting two penalty kicks. Captain Shakava has allayed fears that the departure of two key players could affect the team’s performance noting that they have just opened opportunities for players who are regularly benched to showcase their skills. Also Read: ‘’We are not so shaken even though their departure has slightly been felt. In football, players come and go. Their departure has also opened avenues for players who have been on the bench regularly to prove their worth.’’ Recently, former Captain Kenneth Muguna and centre-back Charles Momanyi decamped to Tanzania’s  Azam and Kenya’s Tusker FC respectively. Muguna was a regular starter and features for the National team Harambee Stars. Earlier on, Team Manager Jolawi Obondo indicated that only Muguna’s departure was felt citing his skills of manning the midfield. He described him as a serious footballer who was trusted in the midfield not only by his team but with the national team as well. ‘’As the team manager, I can say we have lost a great player. He was our main man in the midfield and his departure is a big blow to us. Momanyi was not a regular starter even though he was equally good.’’ Meanwhile, Gor Mahia yesterday received the Ksh2 million for winning the FKF Cup. Football Kenya Federation, while handing over the money, said they are in the process of releasing the remainder of the monies to the runners up AFC Leopards, Bidco United, and Equity who finished third and fourth respectively. The delay in the disbursement of their winning grant was the bond of contention last weekend when Gor and AFC Leopards declined to honour a league match which led to the two clubs being sanctioned alongside their two chairmen. Gor were fined Ksh4 million with AFC Leopards having to pay Ksh6 million as the home team. The two sides have since engaged their legal teams to craft the way forward. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy