Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) head coach Anthony Ojukwu is poised to take on rivals Equity Bank in the Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) Women’s premier league on Sunday, saying they are well drilled for the task. The Mombasa based KPA are already in Nairobi, ahead of the clash at the University of Nairobi grounds. Ojukwu will however miss three key players who were injured during the recent Afrobasket qualifiers in Rwanda. His Equity Bank counterpart David Maina admits KPA are their main challengers in the league. “I just hope and pray that the focus we have been having in training will pay off, and that’s why we came early in Nairobi to acclimatize with the capital’s weather. They have improved a lot and we have also improved a great deal, so we are expecting to have a good game especially from my players,” Ojukwu said. Ojukwu will however miss three key players who were injured during the recent Afrobasket qualifiers in Rwanda. Also Read: “Two of my players who play for the national team got injuries while in Kigali, they have been told to take time and to recover. The other one got injured during training,” revealed the coach. The three include team captain Velma Achieng, Selina Okumu, and Rita Aluoch. Before playing Equity on Sunday, KPA will first play Eagle Wings on Saturday. His Equity Bank counterpart David Maina admits KPA are their main challengers in the league. On his side, Equity Bank overall head coach David Maina says it will be a tough match which they will use to gauge their strength as compared to the games they have been playing. “We know it’s a big game, but it’s not about the results. For me the most important thing the match will help us know where we are so that we can highlight the areas we need to improve on. “However, that does not we are not fighting for a win, the girls are in high spirits and we expect a good result,” Maina said. The two teams are so far unbeaten in the Premier League with the bankers leading the table with 12 points after six matches, while KPA are fourth with eight from four matches. Elsewhere, Storms head Coach Abel Nson who will be leading his team to face UON Dynamites on Sunday. “My team is not just trying to win games but to win the league,” said Nson.  Collated Women Premier League Weekend fixtures Saturday August, 2021 Eagle Wings VS KPA- 1:00pm Sunday August 8 2021 UON Dynamites VS Storms- 11:30pm ANU VS Strathmore -1pm Equity VS KPA-2:30pm MP- Umoja VS KPA -4:00pm Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy