The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Nordic Haji has ordered the arrest of six police officers linked to the deaths of two brothers in the Kianjokoma area of Embu. In a statement on Monday, DPP directed the Inspector General of police to arrest and arraign the six to avoid any interference with evidence and or intimidation of witnesses “Based on the preliminary Investigation Report forwarded by the Inspector General (IG), I am shortly directing the IG to immediately arrest and arraign in court, in Nairobi, all officers involved pending investigations by the IPOA to avoid any interference with evidence and or intimidation of witnesses,” the statement issued on Monday reads. DPP Haji said that his office expected to receive the results of all investigations no later than Monday evening. The latest comes hot in the wake of the conclusion of investigations into the death of the two brothers who were in police custody. Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) said investigations had established a prima facie case against six police officers for the crime of murder. Also Read: The IPOA recommended that the officers be relieved of their duties immediately pending the outcome of an independent review of the findings, which will be sent to the Director of Public Prosecutions. “As it stands now, the six officers face a capital offence – murder.” The IPOA said “This recommendation is not likely to take a different direction” The six officers were also ordered to surrender any government property they have in their possession, including their firearms, and to be available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. “The officers and their commanders, who have since been interrogated and their statements recorded, be available round the clock for further assistance to IPOA investigators when called upon,” the Authority added. In addition to murder, the Authority is pursuing other charges, such as negligence in performance of duty, which may have been committed by any other officers who attended to the two brothers’ deaths. The National Police Service (NPS) and Internal Affairs Unit, had also launched their own inquiries into the possible culpability of the officers. According to the DPP, the IG has forwarded to the ODPP a file of preliminary findings which is under urgent scrutiny and review. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy