Former Tusker FC captain James Situma says the brewers have a slight edge over KCB in the Premier League title race, which has narrowed down to the two teams with only three matches to go. The two are tied at 58 points, but Situma expects the experience within Tusker’s playing unit to make the difference. With just a loss or a draw a big factor to either of the teams in deciding who carries the title, Situma underlines the importance of mental stability to avoid slips. “They (Tusker) have been in that position before against Gor Mahia in 2016 and they managed to win the league with two points. They have to remain calm and make sure they take every game after another as a final. They have experienced players who know how to win big games, so I’m sure they will manage the pressure that comes with leading the table at the end,” said Situma. He however does not rule out KCB’s potential to seize their moments and clinch their maiden Premier League trophy. “KCB have a great coach and they have really fought to be where they are. You look at them playing against the big teams and you see how much they have improved, they are there deservedly,” he noted. Also Read: Ahead of Tusker’s CAF Champions League season set to kick-off next month, the retired Kenyan international anticipates new signings Patrick Matasi and Charles Momanyi to add more mettle in the team. “It’s a competition that needs experience, the signings they have made will be of great value to the team as they prepare for the competition because those players have tested continental football before. With the experience of the coach he will be able to balance the team and hopefully put a good show against the other continental giants,” Situma examined. In particular, Matasi joins a competitive goalkeeping department going by the performance exhibited by the current custodians. “They have very good goalkeepers and with Matasi in the mix you expect the technical bench to make difficult decisions and drop one,” he noted. Tusker who take on Kakamega Homeboyz on Friday have been rotating between Emery Mvuyekure, Michael Wanjala and Robert Mboya in their goalkeeping department this season. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy