Lionel Messi’s dramatic exit from Barcelona still has some twists left, with the Catalans alleging PSG cannot sign the Argentine icon due to their own FFP situation. Lawyers at the Spanish club have filed a complain to the European Court of Appeals, stating the Parisians should be stopped in their pursuit of Messi based on financial data. Messi confirmed in a teary press conference that he will be leaving Barcelona this summer after a lifetime at the club, and is now finalising terms with PSG. However, Barca aren’t keen to see their all-time greatest player move to a European rival, and are very interested in meddling with the move. French writer and lawyer Juan Branco confirmed the complaint on Twitter. ‘On behalf of FC Barcelona partners, my firm has prepared a complaint with the European Commission and demands for provisional suspension before civil and administrative courts in France to prevent Paris-Saint Germain from signing Lionel Messi. Also Read: ‘PSG’s ratios in terms of ‘Financial Fair Play’ are worse than those of FC Barcelona. ‘In 2019-2020, PSG’s salary-to-income ratio was 99%, while Barcelona’s was 54%. Meanwhile, the difference has increased. ‘It is inconceivable that the ‘Financial Fair Play’ serves to aggravate the drifts of football-business, the instrumentalization of football by sovereign powers, and the distortion of competitions.’ The report claims PSG will fall foul of FFP with the signing of Messi, and reveals that Barcelona couldn’t renew the star’s contract because even after a 50 per cent pay cut, the club’s wage bill would be 110 per cent of cap, according to Marca. It also reportedly pointed as the Ligue 1 side’s active summer this year, with Gianluigi Donnarumma, Sergio Ramos, Achraf Hakimi and Georginio Wijnaldum all arriving at the Parc de Princes. They already have the massive wages of Kylian Mbappe and Neymar to shoulder. -Courtesy- Daily Mail Online Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy