Newly unveiled Gor Mahia gaffer Mark Harrison has said he will introduce an entertaining football style into the club win the aim of winning every trophy ahead of him. The coach who was unveiled on Monday says he understands African football having coached other clubs in the continent, and “as a winner,” he will make Gor Mahia a winning team ‘’I intend to make Gor Mahia greater by winning every trophy ahead of me. I’m a winner and I want Gor to be a winner,’’ said Harrison. The former Botswana’s Township Rollers coach has already pointed out long-balls style, popular among leagues he has coached in within Africa, is no for him. “Long balls is not my game. I want players to play with one another from the defense to the midfield – and all the way to the opponent’s goalmouth.” The coach takes over from Portuguese Carlos Manuel Vaz Pinto who left last month just after securing the CAF Confederations Cup ticket with the local giants, courtesy of the FKF Cup win. Also Read: The tactician is already looking forward to the CAF Confederations Cup next season. ‘’Playing away from home is quite different and needs proper planning. I will need to study my opponents and advise my boys accordingly. International matches are tricky since we will be playing against winners as well. I am confident Gor will go places,’’ he promised. Gor Mahia will be making another attempt at the continental level having failed to reach any semi-final since 1987 when they won the then Nelson Mandela Cup. Harrison comes in at a time key players have left the club, including former captain Kenneth Muguna and dependable centre-back Charles Momanyi. He also takes over at time Gor has gone seven matches without a win in the league, with the club’s management also in a simmering row with the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) over the boycotted derby on Saturday. Harrison was unveiled by the first vice-chairman Francis Wasuna as chairman Ambrose Rachier is suspended by FKF. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy