Harambee Stars coach Jacob “Ghost” Mulee has named a 36-man provisional squad for the upcoming 2022 FIFA World Cup Qualifiers against Uganda and Rwanda in Nairobi and Kigali. Notable inclusions include KAA Gent (Belgium) defender Joseph Okumu, Eric Ouma of AIK (Sweden), Al-Duhail’s (Qatar) Michael Olunga, and the Zambia-based trio of Ian Otieno, Duke Abuya, and Duncan Otieno. Sweden-based Eric Johanna also makes a return to the team. FKF Premier League top scorer Erick Kapaito leads a stellar ensemble of locally-based players with Lawrence Juma, Eugene Asike and Elvis Rupia also invited to the squad. There was no place for former Spurs midfielder Victor Wanyama for the second time in a row with Simba SC defender Joash Onyango also missing out. Frank Odhiambo steps up from the U23 Emerging Stars and there are also first call-ups for Richard Odada, Enock Momanyi, and Siraj Mohammed. Coach Jacob “Ghost” Mulee expressed optimism in the squad. Also Read: “This is a strong group of players, we have a superb blend of experience, youth, ability, and personalities. This is a group of players who have what it takes to start well against Uganda and go all the way.” Local-based players report for camp on August 24, while their foreign-based counterparts are expected to start arriving from August 30. Harambee Stars play Uganda at 3pm on September 2, at Nyayo Stadium, after which they will travel to face Rwanda on September 3. Kenya will compete in Group E alongside Rwanda, Mali, and Uganda. Ian Otieno (Zesco United, Zambia), James Saruni (Ulinzi Stars, Kenya), Joseph Okoth (KCB, Kenya), Brian Bwire (Kariobangi Sharks, Kenya), Brandon Obiero (Kariobangi Sharks) Joseph Okumu (KAA Gent, Belgium), Eric Ouma (AIK, Sweden), Eugene Asike (Tusker, Kenya), Nashon Alembi (KCB, Kenya), Harun Shakava (Gor Mahia, Kenya), Andrew Juma (Gor Mahia, Kenya), Siraj Mohammed (Bandari, Kenya), Clyde Senaji (AFC Leopards, ), Frank Odhiambo (Gor Mahia, Kenya), Bolton Omwenga (Nairobi City Stars, Kenya), Daniel Sakari (Kariobangi Sharks, Kenya), Baraka Badi (KCB, Kenya) Richard Odada (Red Star Belgrade, Serbia), Duke Abuya (Nkana, Zambia), Duncan Otieno (Lusaka Warriors, Zambia), Lawrence Juma (Sofapaka, Kenya), Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia, Kenya), Kevin Kimani (Wazito, Kenya), Patillah Omoto (Kariobangi Sharks, Kenya), Enock Momanyi (FC Talanta, Kenya), Jackson Macharia (Tusker, Kenya), Eric Johanna (Jonkopings Sondra IF, Sweden) Boniface Muchiri (Tusker, Kenya), Abdalla Hassan (Bandari, Kenya) Michael Olunga (Al-Duhail, Qatar), Masud Juma (Difaâ Hassani El Jadidi, Morocco), Cliffton Miheso (Gor Mahia, Kenya), Erick Kapaito (Kariobangi Sharks, Kenya), Elvis Rupia (AFC Leopards), Samuel Onyango (Gor Mahia, Kenya), Benson Omalla (Gor Mahia, Kenya) Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis