ODM leader Raila Odinga has opposed the bottom-up economic proposal stating that those who were leading the push were misleading Kenya’s youth. The former prime minister who was speaking at the home of the late Nginyo Kariuki’s son reflected on his tenure at the helm of government with former President Mwai Kibaki stating that the only way to boost the economy was for the government to prioritise local investors over foreign investors. With a little over 11 months to the August 9, 2022 poll, the campaign issues are taking shape with the economy central to the conversation. ODM leader Raila Odinga whilst visiting the home of the son of the late Nginyo Kariuki proposed a return to the tried and tested economic model rolled out during the coalition government between 2008 – 2012. “I remember during my tenure with former president Mwaki Kibaki we worked to see to see the economy of the country was enhanced,” said Odinga. Whilst it is no secret that those verbal salvos are aimed at Deputy President William Ruto, the country’s second-in-command has previously challenged his 2022 opponents to table their economic manifestos. Also Read: With corruption said to consume 33% of Kenya’s budget according to the former auditor-general some members of the political class are warning that this vice must first be controlled before any economic model can bring about tangible change. This visit to Kiambu County comes days after Odinga spent several hours in a closed door meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House Mombasa together with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, KANU Chair Gideon Moi and Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Whilst State House insisted that the meeting was to discuss national matters including the state of the economy and COVID-19, the politics of succession did feature according to some sources that spoke to Citizen TV. This visit to Kiambu county comes just a day after the ODM leader yesterday met With ambassadors and heads of mission from the United Kingdom, European Union, the US and the UN to discuss national issues. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy