A day after President Uhuru Kenyatta challenged his deputy William Ruto to quit government if he is dissatisfied with its operations, the deputy president is out with a clear message; “I have no space to retreat and I don’t have the luxury to surrender.” Speaking on Tuesday at the burial of Mahoo Ward MCA Ronald Habel Sagurani in Taita Taveta County, DP Ruto indicated that he would continue advocating for what he believes is the best direction for the country and pointing out what is not good for Kenyans The deputy president said he is a man on a mission to ensure the jobless and ordinary citizens running small businesses are empowered through the bottom-up economic model which he continues to champion. “And for those who have a problem, I want to ask them for forgiveness and I want to tell them I am a man on a mission. I have no space to retreat and I don’t have the luxury to surrender… I’m a man on a mission to ensure the jobless, those running small business, the many farmers who are struggling they too become part of our nation and that Kenya cannot be a preserve for leaders and what they want and can get,” said Ruto. “I’m asking them to understand that I am a person on a mission I cannot retreat or surrender because we have decided that we are going to change the economy and we are going to have a bottom-up economic experience in Kenya that is going to lift those without jobs and empower those with small businesses so that we can build a nation where no Kenyan is left behind.” He took a swipe at the proponents of the now sunk government-sponsored BBI saying it was all about creating positions of power for few individuals. Also Read: “I beg them to understand that it cannot continue that those who are leaders want to change the Constitution so that we can share positions and power without regard of those without jobs,” said Ruto. He added: “Kenya ni yetu wote… Hakuna haja ya vurugu hakuna haja ya makasiriko.” The President, in a candid chat with media editors at the State House in Nairobi on Monday, left little doubt as to the broken state of his relation with Ruto; his deputy of 9 years and running mate in two elections. President Kenyatta told off the DP for criticising the same government that he serves yet being unwilling to ship out, hence leaving the country in a state of confusion over his stand. According the Head of State, it is not right for DP Ruto to choose what government projects to take pride and credit in and which ones to distance himself from. “I have an agenda that I was elected on, and that work must continue, and it would really be the honourable thing that if you’re not happy with it that you would actually step aside and allow those who want to move on, and then  take your agenda to the people. Which is what happens in any normal democracy, because you can’t have your cake and eat it,” he said. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis