By Patience Nyange and Esther Kiragu This week we feature a media practitioner who has made a mark in the media industry, having worked at it for about 20 years. Possibly she is more famous for being not just a radio presenter in Kenya’s top 3 stations but also being listed as one of Kenya’s top 10 radio presenters. She published a sex column for about 10 years in The Star newspaper that was ranked the number 2 newspaper column in the country. She has also been on TV and occasionally on BBC Africa’s #TheSheWord discussing issues affecting African women. Not too long ago, she founded Dadasphere Media that focuses on creating platforms where African women can share their stories, including events and TV shows. Ladies and Gentlemen, put your hands together for Valentine Njoroge. Valentine Njoroge’s passion for women runs deep; she is an unapologetic feminist. She is a founding member of The Graca Machel Trust’s Women in Media Network, and a trustee of the GMT’s New Faces New Voices (NFNV) in Kenya. NFNV lobbies for financial inclusion on women across Africa. She has played a role in the significant growth of media in Kenya over the years, especially when it comes to including women as storytellers and their lived realities.  “I am proud to have played a role in making the Kenyan media draw attention to women, their achievements and challenges alike.” Also Read: After working for many years in the media and gaining expansive exposure, I couldn’t deny that whenever I wanted to highlight women or one of the issues affecting them, I was met with resistance and frequently insistence that men be part of the conversation. So I decided to carry out a national research in conjunction with InfoTrak and the Graca Machel Trust; with the intention to establish the narrative that Kenyan media had developed when it comes to women. The research findings revealed that Kenyans perceive women as victims and, women rarely made the news for leadership, success or being powerful. So I purposed to change this narrative. This is how I founded Dadasphere; a bi-monthly event platform where African women share their stories in their own words and voices. Dadasphere also produces The Loop on K24, a current affairs show that frequently focuses on how policy, law and societal issues turn up in the daily lives of Kenyan women.  1. Having spent many years as a radio host before setting up my own practice, there are two lessons I’ve learnt that can be helpful to those aspiring to join the media industry. 2. Drawing from your personal experience, please tell us what role has each of the following played in your career journey. The COVID-19 pandemic showed us all how little control we have and how our daily activities do not necessarily align with what brings us joy and fulfillment. I have since adjusted my life to include more time with God, family time, personal time, exercise etc  3. Which is your favourite book, and what are some of its nuggets that apply to the Kenyan professional woman? My favourite book changes all the time. I am currently reading Good to Great: why some companies make the leap and others don’t by Jim Collins and I am loving the lessons on business and leadership. I am also reading The Havoc of Choice by Wanjiru Koinange and all I will say is that it should be required reading for all voting Kenyans. 4. Assuming that you had a magic stick and you were in a position to change a few things in the world, which are the two things that will top your list and why? Any parting shot? Africa is where she is by largely ignoring a huge resource at her disposal; the African woman.  We have systematically been kept out of school, governance, leadership, business and the economy.  The day we fix that; the day the African woman is a fully enfranchised citizen, moving freely, enjoying equal access to opportunities and resources, the day her seat the table is no longer seen as a gift to her but rather a vital part of the conversation, on that very day, Africa will be an unstoppable force. About the writers: Esther is a writer, editor, and communication professional in Kenya while Patience Nyange is a Chevening Scholar with a Masters Degree in International Public Relations and Global Communication Management from Cardiff University. Prior to joining Cardiff University, Patience served as an Assistant Director at the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR). Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis