A petitioner has filed case in court against Marsabit Governor Mohamud Mohammed Ali over alleged misappropriation of county funds. Mohammed Said wants the court to order the governor to give an account on the utilization of Ksh.119 million allocated by the County Government for COVID-19 responses. Also sued is the County’s CEC for Finance. The Auditor General, Controller of Budget, EACC, and County Assembly of Marsabit have been named as interested parties. The petitioner says that he is aggrieved by the manner in which the respondents have misappropriated county funds meant to benefit the people of Marsabit. He wants the court to order the governor to present statements of account on all statutory deductions and remittance and pension made from all county staff from the period 2017 to June 2021 among other orders. “The people of Marsabit have a right to dignified life and access to resources, which right is being violated unless the respondents are compelled to give account of county funds allocated each year from 2017 to date. There are glaring financial malpractices in the county Government of Marsabit for the period 2017-2021 financial years that have been subjected to audit by the auditor General which report is pending,” reads court papers Also Read: He says that he is apprehensive that unless the application herein is heard and dispensed with, the respondents whom he says are enjoying their last year in office pending general elections in 2022 will capitalize on money laundering and embezzlement of county funds. In a certificate of urgency, the petitioner wants the court to compel the respondents to pay all the pending and audited bills from the said years and their personal accounts be audited in order to enable him know how the funds are spent. He says that the governor being the executive of Marsabit County has refused and ignored his obligation to approve payments for pending bills since 2017/2018 financial years to date. Further he is accusing the governor of failing to remit statutory deductions on behalf of county staff. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis