She’s swift. Perfect. Patient and intelligent in the ring. Meet Emily Juma aka Ring Princess, Kenya’s latest sensation in women’s boxing who’s knocking on the door to stardom. She is a product of Boxgirls Kenya, an organisation which uses sports to engineer social change as well as empower the girl child. “My big goal right now is to make it in the national team to represent my country in the Commonwealth Games next near. I’m confident of myself and prepared to face any opponent to fulfill my ambition,” says Emily who started boxing in 2012 at Bangladesh Boxing Club in Kariobangi in Nairobi. The 22-year-old stylish southpaw has made her intentions known by winning the national novices and intermediate titles. To accomplish her ambition of donning the national jersey, she will have to overcome Commonwealth Games flyweight bronze medallist Christine Ongare and Veronica Mbithe of Kenya Defense Forces. Emily attributes her rise to founder and coach of Boxgirls Alfred Analo, coach Jane Knight alias Sonko Msoto and Universal Boxing Organisation Inter-Continental lightweight champ Sarah Achieng aka Angel of War. Also Read: “Its Jane Knight who taught me the boxing basics and then Priest took over. I also thank Achieng (Sarah) for encouraging me as well as showing me several tricks. She has also been my boxing mentor,” she said. Emily schooled at Mathare Primary and Chemi Chemi High, with Boxgirls catering for her education. “If it was not for Boxgirls I would not have been where I am now. They’ve changed my life. That’s why I also assist them as a mentor to girls in the slums.” Emily lives with her parents in Korogocho slums but says she’s relying on her  boxing potential to one day get them out of boxing For now her options are open to available opportunities. “I would really want to join KDF and be with Veronica Mbithe and other female boxers. If I get a chance there I can’t turn it down, and I can even turn pro.” Coach Analo aka Priest says of Emily: “She has impressed me since she took up boxing, she’s ripe for the national team. She’s a disciplined girl and a fast learner.” Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis