Fortune Sacco will aim to make the most of National Super League leaders Football Club Talanta’s slump on Saturday to reduce the gap between them and the league leaders to five points when they face MCF Monday in the 3pm fixture. Talanta failed to overcome a resilient Modern Coast Rangers who are fighting to avoid the chop as they settled for a 1-1 stalemate. Elsewhere bottom-side Soy United head coach Francis Xavier is hoping to build on his side’s 2-1 triumph against giants Shabana to mount a serious survival challenge. His side is rocked at the bottom of the log with 27 points with seven matches to go and Sunday’s successful outing has got him thinking they can hold on to the slim chance and avoid the chop at the end of the season. “Our immediate objective is to avoid relegation and then we will plan for next season afterward. “We have struggled recently and we are ranked at number last on the log. Today we played well and I hope this will give us the belief that we can survive.” Also Read: Shabana head coach Robert Ojienda has conceded that his side is out of contention for promotion following a series of poor results in their last seven matches in which they have lost four times with the other three matches ending in draws. “It is very unfortunate that we are losing games because of avoidable mistakes. The boys have lost focus and today’s game was no different,” he added. “We are officially out of contention for promotion and I hope this will get the pressure off the players as we approach our last seven games,” a visibly downcast Ojienda told Citizen Digital on the sidelines of the Migori Stadium after watching his side fail to abate their recent poor show. NSL Weekend Results Kenya Police 2-1 Silibwet Kisumu All-Stars 3-0 Nairobi Stima Mt Kenya United 2-0 Mwatate United Shabana 0-1 Soy United Kibera Black Stars 1-0 APS Bomet Modern Coast Rangers 2-1 Gusii FC FC Talanta 1-1 Coast Stima Migori Youth 1-2 Vihiga Bullets Monday MCF v Fortune Sacco Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy