First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has said the upcoming World Under-20 Championships provides hope amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. Kenya is set to host the global event on August 17-22 at the Kasarani Stadium just a week after the conclusion of the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan. While speaking on Friday during the official launch of the World Under- 20 Championships mascot, medals and theme song, Kenyatta who is also the patron of the event said sporting activities have been a source of hope to the world since the outbreak of the pandemic. “This time in the midst of the pandemic where the whole world has felt isolated, competitions such as this alleviates the importance of sports,” she said during the event held at the Kasarani Stadium. With Kenya having hosted a successful event during the World Under-18 Championships in 2017, Kenyatta who was also the patron of the event said Kenya was in line to host another memorable event. “This event underscores the rich talent and potential that lies in our youths. These Championships provide another chance for Kenya to showcase herself as a centre of sporting excellence offering world class facilities just like we did in 2017,” said Kenyatta. Also Read: The medals were designed by the Shanga Initiative drawn from the cultural heritage of the Maasai community while the theme song ‘Keep Jogging’ was sung by Nyashinski to advocate for good mental health. The First Lady used the event to also wish all the athletes’ success in the Championship set to be held in under two weeks. “I wish all the athletes’ success. Remember sports are meant to be enjoyed irrespective of if one is a participant or a spectator.” At the same time, she also praised the medal design saying they are a symbol of beauty and resilience that our young athletes have gained through training and competition. “It also highlights the theme and diversity of the World Athletics Championships,” she added. Principal Secretary Joe Okudo on behalf of the Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed sang praises of the mascot otherwise known as Jabali (Mohawk). He said the mascot is a symbol of braveness, strength, courage and determination as it was the lion’s character in the Maasai Mara National Park where it killed most male lions to rule the jungle. “The indomitable spirit of Jabali is a character of bravery we would like to embrace to ensure that the country’s name is roared out there as a sporting nation,” said Okudo as he wished all athletes and officials coming for the five-day event a safe and enjoyable stay in Kenya. Okudo assured the First Lady that Covid-19 protocols’ will be followed to the letter  ensure all participants and officials go back to their countries safely Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy