Africa Under-18 silver medalist in 400m, Linda Kageha, is set to lift the Kenyan flag high in the women’s discus throw in the forthcoming World Under 20 Championships, slated for August 17-22 at the Moi International Sports Center Kasarani. The 19-year-old Kageha, who started as a footballer is looking forward to doubling up in the 4X400m relay and discus women throw in the biennial event in a few days with a podium finish target. “I started as a footballer, while studying at Bitagwa High School in Muguga, Kisii County in 2016. I was all over the field as a striker. That’s what made our school coach Paul Nzofu approach and ask me to also try out athletics. I was hesitant at first but he encouraged me, though I did not know where I would fit so when we started at the county level, I competed in the 200m, 400 and 800m and won all of them. “That motivated me to continue competing and booked a ticket for the next rounds until I was able to compete at the East Africa School Games, that’s where my love for athletics started,” said Kageha. Kageha added that athletics has helped her financially, and intends to continue with the discipline as a career when she advances to the senior category. “I believe I inherited my discuss talent from my grandmother (Kerina Mudhilwa), she used to compete in the event in her ‘hay’ days. She gave me tips on how to throw the discus while I was doing my trials back in the village in 2014. She told me I need to work on my arm strength and believe in myself. Also Read: “She coached me for some time and encouraged me to practice my throws using stones since I did not have any implements. I hardly did any training on discus due lack of equipment and a coach. During the camp I have taken advantage of the coaches and implements available to improve on my techniques,” she expailed. Assistant Team Manager for Team Kenya, coach Joseph Illovi applauded Kageha attributing her improvement in discus to discipline and cooperation with her coaches. “Kageha has improved quite a lot, when she was competing for a slot in Team Kenya, she made a throw of 37.34m and could not do any turns, but now she can, so far, she has made a throw of 46m while in camp, I want to believe that before going for the competition she will be able to make a throw of 50m, “Apart from working on her techniques she is doing a lot of gym work, when she came, she had not stepped in the gym. Kageha is one athlete we need to continue to nature even after this competition so that she can be able to compete at a senior championship level,” said Illovi as they look at the possibilities for her also competing in the 4X400m. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy