Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga stepped in at the last minute to save Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua’s much-hyped birthday party amidst efforts from some quarters to have it cancelled, it has emerged. This is according to the former Prime Minister who spoke of alleged plans to halt Governor Mutua’s joint party with Tanzanian musician Rayvanny over fears of breaching protocols instituted by the government to combat the spread of COVID-19. Raila, speaking on Sunday at the party held at a Nairobi hotel, said the Machakos County boss called him after being informed that his shindig had hit headwinds. The ODM party chief said that upon receiving the information from the governor on Saturday night, he made phone calls to presumably relevant authorities to ensure the gig went on as planned. “Alfred called me and told me that he had turned 51 and was celebrating his birthday for the first time, and that he had invited so many friends from all over the world to come…but there was a little hitch taking place against the background of the coronavirus and the establishment was trying to interfere with it, that he was going to breach all the protocols…I spent a big part of last night (Saturday) trying to reach everybody to ensure that this function takes place today (Sunday),” said Raila. The opposition leader added that Governor Mutua on Sunday morning, the day of the actual party, then paid him a visit at his residence where they held a small celebration before later proceeding to the main venue. Also Read: According to Raila, birthdays above the age of 50 are special and deserve to be celebrated, hence his reason for making an appearance before proceeding to the World Under-10 Athletics Championships closing ceremony where he was a special guest. “I had an occasion to celebrate with Alfred earlier today his birthday in my residence, but I told him that I would be coming here in spite of a very heavy schedule. Today (Sunday), as you know, is the final day of the Under 20 World Athletic Championships, I’m the special guest and I’m supposed to be giving a presentation to winners, but I said I must come even if for a few minutes to be here,” he said. “I told Alfred that birthdays are special occasions, but specifically a birthday above 50…because that is when life is now beginning. I told him that the difference between the old and the young is only one; the young do not know what it means to be old, but the old know what it means to be young, because they were once young. Between them is something called experience, that is the difference. You’re always as old as you want to be, like I feel I’m now 18, doing life afresh.” Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis