Defending champions General Service Unit (GSU) and Kenya Prisons started the Kenya Volleyball National League playoffs with an unusually sluggish manner after the duo were forced to dig deep to see off their opponents. GSU laboured to a 3-2 sets win against determined Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) while Prisons got it hard to shake off revitalised DCI with a similar score line in the women’s opener as the league climax served off Friday at the Makande Social Hall in Mombasa. The paramilitary side, who are eyeing the unprecedented 14th men’s title, were stunned by the soldiers who claimed the first two sets in 25-22 and 26-24 before making the turnaround to win the tie. With KDF on verge of winning the match and GSU clearly lacking the services of outside hitter Abiud Chirchir, who is currently turning out for the Grand Nancy in France, the Gideon Tarus-coached charges improved on their reception clinching the two sets in 25-19 and 25-14 to send the duel into the tie-breaker set. The champions’ experience played a big role in the tie breaker set winning 15-5 to claim two points. “KDF were very good in their services and it was hard to contain them and that’s why they have given us a big challenge. We’d mistakes in reception and we didn’t correct them in the early stages and they punished us by winning the first two sets. Also Read: “Now we will shift focus to the next match against KPA and we must pick the three points against them to stay on course,” he told Citizen Digital. In the women’s version, Kenya Prisons came down a set to edge DCI in 25-21, 25-22, 25-21, 22-13 and 15-10. Prisons head coach Josp Barasa admitted this year’s playoffs will be competitive due to the top levels of preparations from every side participating. “This season will be a tough one and we need to use all our energy to defend our title because everyone is aiming to win it this year. The competition is very high because no one is ready to surrender their sets easily and that’s why most of the matches will be decided by tie-breakers,” said Barasa, who is also the national women’s team assistant coach. In the same court, KCB made a huge statement of intent after they spanked former champions Kenya Pipeline in straight sets ( 25-18, 25-17, 25-18). They face DCI on Saturday while Prisons will be up against Kenya Pipeline. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis