Former Gor Mahia FC coach Dylan Kerr has come to the defence of the club’s chairman Ambrose Rachier whose style of management has been the subject of intense criticism. Kerr said Rachier is a ‘dedicated football administrator’ whose leadership has been key in propelling Gor to become the most successful club in the country. The Briton said it is not easy to lead a team to the continental championships for four
consecutive years despite unceasing financial challenges. “The chairman has of late been under attack from the public but they need to understand that taking a team to the CAF Champions League for four consecutive years is not a joke. They need to know that there are two sides of a coin and both make the coin,’’ Kerr said. Rachier has been in charge of the club for over a decade now, and during that period Gor have enjoyed unmatched success, winning seven league titles including four of the last five. Kerr maintained more light needs to be shone on Rachier’s effort instead of nailing him over ‘petty issues’. Also Read: “The critics are not even talking about the positive sides of the chairman. They should also be talking about his dominance amongst Kenyan teams other than concentrating on petty issues.” Rachier has been walking a thin rope over financial issues at the club whose accounts are almost empty following the lack of a steady sponsorship funds. He has been the subject of heavy criticism with calls for his resignation now intensifying. Players and the technical bench have gone without pay or received late salaries and allowances, which has also led to the exit of some dependable players. The problem is common among other FKF Premier League sides which are also struggling to make ends meet. “People will always get and forget and when they are given, they forget to forgive. I can encourage the chairman to keep taking the club to greater heights,” Kerr lamented. Meanwhile, Kerr has sent a congratulatory message to Tusker FC for winning the League title and getting the rights to represent the country at the CAF Champions League. The coach has tipped Tusker to perform well at the championship saying they really deserved it. “I want to congratulate Tusker FC for the achievement. They have worked hard to win the title despite the challenges brought about by the emergence of Covid 19. With good preparation, Tusker can leave a mark at the continental scene.” The Brewers will represent the country at the CAF Champions League beginning next month after finishing top of the log as of June 30 and eventually emerging the title winners. The former Champions Gor Mahia will fly the Kenyan flag at the CAF Confederations Cup following the FKF Cup win. But Kerr is worried about the lack of sponsorship for Gor noting that this might affect their Continental campaign. ‘’Gor is very good team. But the consistent financial problems at the club is a big cause of worry that can ruin their campaign,’’ added Kerr. He is currently in the South African DSTV League with Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila as the head coach, the team he joined in April
2021. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis