Basketball giants KPA head coach Sammy Kiki says having breaks in the league affects team chemistry and wants league organisers to put in place modalities for an uninterrupted season. “Sometimes delaying for long without playing affects the team, when the team chemistry is gelling well and then you go for breaks it forces us to go to square one. We hope this time round we will continue playing without long breaks,” Kiki said. Kiki has at the same time praised his defence for their win against Eldonets in the men’s premier league fixture played in Eldoret. The Dockers hammered the home team 85-71 over the weekend, dominating all the quarters winning 22-20, 15-13, 20-14 and 28-24. “We played well, especially in the third and fourth quarter. Our defence worked very well and were able to cut their strongholds,” he said. “Beating Eldonets at their backyard is not an easy…I was expecting them to give us hard time which they did in the first half but in the second half we enhanced our defence, rectified our mistakes, and overpowered them,” Kiki added. The Dockers have now played seven games, winning six, and losing one, to accumulate 13 points. Also Read: In other fixtures, women premier league champions Equity Hawks continued with their unbeaten record hammering newcomers Kisumu LadyBucks 63-30 as Equity men defeated Lakeside 71-59. Equity overall head coach David Maina is delighted with the results and is hoping the momentum continues. “So far so good, for the ladies especially, maintaining their good run and hopefully we can remain at the top. Every win gives us more confidence to retain the championship,” Maina said. Equity Hawks have so far played eight games winning all to lead the log on 16 points with three games to go in the first leg. Newcomers Kisumu Ladybucks  have in the meantime played two games against giants KPA and Equity, losing both, to pick just two points only. League results Eldonets 71-85 KPA Kisumu Lady Bucks 30-63 Equity-WP Lakeside 59-71 Equity – MP Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy