Deputy President William Ruto has praised the Court of Appeal judgment upholding the High Court verdict that declared as unconstitutional the bid to amend the Constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). Ruto expressed his jubilation and thanked the heavens for what he termed as saving the country and “stopping the mighty and powerful from destroying our Constitution.” “God, our heavenly Father has come through for Kenya & stopped the coalition of the known, the mighty, and the powerful from destroying our constitution. Our God, help the alliance of the unknown, the jobless, the hustlers & struggling farmers to now engineer our economy from bottom up,” he tweeted. In a consolidated judgement, the seven Appellate Court judges, stopped the BBI reggae, as it was popularly referred to, terming the process as unconstitutional. Also Read: End of reggae: Court of Appeal declares BBI unconstitutional The much-anticipated verdict elicited mixed reactions from the political divide with the BBI proponents led by ODM leader Raila Odinga appearing to concede defeat as the opponents came out dancing. Also Read: Key allies of the Deputy President were also in line to celebrate the verdict. Here are their reactions: I congratulate my colleagues in the Senate and National Assembly who voted NO to BBI. That was an act of bravery. We felt lonely then but today are in the company of giants of truth and justice. God bless you — KIPCHUMBA MURKOMEN, E.G.H (@kipmurkomen) August 20, 2021  We have to be grateful that our leaders are constantly reminded that our Country is not a personal property or a Limited company owned by a few landlords and Oligarchs. Congratulations our Judiciary and Institutions H.E Kibaki built. We are African and Africa is our Business.. — Ndindi Nyoro (@NdindiNyoro) August 20, 2021  Impunity and chest thumping has lost,the 2010 constitution is safe. https://t.co/jLyppDsSWE — Hon Caleb Kositany MP Soy (@ckositany) August 20, 2021  Amen.God ABOVE ALL else. We must continue to serve Him Faithfully by being in the service of His people,NOT the mighty. It is BOTTOM-UP! https://t.co/PGrSeGrNJ7 — KIMANI ICHUNG'WAH (@KIMANIICHUNGWAH) August 20, 2021   AMEN! — Cecily Mbarire, MGH (@CecilyMbarire) August 20, 2021  Justice has been served to Kenyans thro upholding of rule of law & fidelity to the constitution where the PEOPLE Occupy rightful position. I appeal to my colleagues across political divide to allow the ill fated BBI PARLIAMENTARY PROCESS shall be catastrophic .#BBIRuling — senator  kiprotich Arap cherargei (@scherargei) August 20, 2021  BBI is buried. .In humility and reverence to God almighty, the people of kenya have won. The constitution has prevailed. Judiciary is the last beacon of hope against extreme Executive impunity and deceit. H.E Uhuru Kenyatta Your Excellency pls seek  wise counsel. @KoinangeJeff — Hon Alice Wahome (@WahomeHon) August 20, 2021  It is over! BBI is DONE & DUSTED! pic.twitter.com/POIcDwiKPL — Sen. Susan Kihika (@susankihika) August 20, 2021  You will never do anything in this world without courage. It is the greatest quality of the mind next to honor. ~ Aristotle pic.twitter.com/8wPQODNzr1 — John Kj Kiarie (@KiarieJohn) August 20, 2021  The people will always matter no matter how loud the politics is. —Scheaffer. — Wangui Ngirici (@WanguiNgirici) August 20, 2021     Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis