Kenyan international midfielder Francis Kahata’s much touted return to Gor Mahia has hit a dead end after the club failed to meet his sign-on -fee demands. According to Gor sporting director Lordvic Aduda, the club had negotiated with Kahata but could not meet his demand hence withdrawing from the talks. ‘’I have personally spoken to Kahata and his agents and he confirmed he was ready to make a return to Gor. Unfortunately we were unable to raise what he was demanding hence dropped the talks,’’ said Aduda. Kahata became a free agent after running down his two-year deal with Tanzanian giants Simba SC in June this year and was reportedly on way back to Gor Mahia. According to Aduda, the club is struggling financially and cannot risk being ‘reckless’ in their expenditure, noting that they want all those who will be recruited to be happy at the club. ‘’Our financial muscle is weak and we are very careful how we spend our money. A winning team should be composed of players who are happy and motivated. We need to pay prompt salaries and allowances and this needs proper calculation. ‘’ Also Read: Meanwhile Aduda has refuted the notion that the three players who have left the club did so in protest. Aduda says the exit of Charles Momanyi, Kenneth Muguna and Abdul Karim was on mutual agreement claiming Muguna bought out the remainder of his contract by paying the club three months equivalent of his monthly wage. ‘’I have read everywhere that some of our players ditched the club. This is not true. They all left on mutual agreement and even signed. In fact Muguna paid the club for the months left of his contract. None of them left in protest,’ ’charged Aduda. According to Aduda, the club will be making recruitments after keen scrutiny of terms demanded by the earmarked players to ensure they players recruited are affordable and retainable. Understandably Gor are walking through a tight financial rope and has struggled to stay afloat in the ended campaign. They finished eighth in the league last season, their worst performance in over 10years. The return of Kahata could have added creativity in the team’s midfield after the exit of midfielder Abdul Karim and Kenneth Muguna. The record champions will represent Kenya at the CAF Confederations Cup and will need to beef up the squad if they are to make an impression at the continental level Kahata left Gor in 2019 to join Simba SC where he plied his trade for two seasons till June 2021 when he left the ‘Msimbazi’ side. ‘’Other than Momanyi, Karim and Muguna, no other player has made his intention known. I want to believe most of them will want to remain at Gor despite the difficulties we are facing. But no situation is permanent. We shall soon be off the hook,’’ added Aduda. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis