Kenya defended her overall title at the just concluded World Athletics Under-20 Championships held at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani topping the medal standings with a total of 17 medals; eight gold, two silver and seven bronze. One of the distinguished guests at the biennial world junior event, which was held behind closed doors, was retired Kenyan track and field great and two-time Olympic gold medalist Kipchoge Keino. Our own Stanley Mativo got the rare chance to indulge the trail-blazing Olympian, now 81, over a number of issues among them the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and next month’s Kip Keino Classic, a Continental World Tour series named after him. Mativo: Are you satisfied with the performance of the Kenyan juniors here at Kasarani? Keino: Yes, I’m very happy for them. The class of 2020 has cemented Kenya’s position as a nation of top runners but still a lot needs to be done in some disciplines. Mativo: What is your piece of advice to the budding athletes? Also Read: Keino:  The journey to greatness has started and at their age this is the critical stage before they transition to the senior category. They must choose the right path which is working hard and being disciplined. Talent without hard work and discipline is nothing. Mativo: Do you think as a country we’re on the right track? Keino:  We’ve a solid running culture in place and a good system of identifying and nurturing talent although it is now shaky. I’m saying that because we lack good facilities and also the school structures that unearthed hundreds of champion runners in the past have collapsed. The country has a lot of talent which is untapped, we’re lacking quality trainers. If we don’t shape up, soon the dominance will be under a threat! Mativo: So, what is your advice to the concerned? Keino:  We need to have good structures down there at primary and secondary schools and the concerned ministries, the Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Education, should work together and ensure the structures are working. We need to equip our teachers and coaches with top skills. Also, since nowadays we’ve county governments, it is easier for them to allocate more funds to ensure we’ve proper facilities. Mativo: At the Tokyo Olympic Games we lost the 3000m steeplechase crown for the first time since 1968, what do you think happened to our athletes in that race and also your assessment for Kenya’s general performance? Keino:  I was disappointed because I’ve always believed that steeplechase is our race no matter what. I won this race in the 1972 Games in Munich and it was even hard to watch the Tokyo Games on TV again after we lost that dominance. However, Covid-19 played a big role in that performance. Most of our athletes didn’t prepare well due to the restrictions which had been put to curb the spread of the virus. But generally our athletes did us proud despite the Covid-19 challenges. Kudos. Mativo: How do you feel when the Kenyan leg of the Continental World Tour series is named after you? Keino:  I’m greatly honoured for that and thankful to the organisers of the Kip Keino Classic. What I did many years ago in athletics is being recognised now, and I urge athletics stakeholders and also the government to continue extending these honours to the retired athletes who put this country on the global map. The government should identify and honour all the retired athletes. Mativo: Were you honoured in any other way by the government or the World Athletics? Keino:  In 2012, I was one of 24 athletes inducted as inaugural members of the International Association of Athletics Federations Hall Of Fame. Mativo: Finally, what are you currently doing after you retired many years ago? Keino:  After serving as the National Olympics Committee of Kenya until 2017 I fully concentrated on farming in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County. Also, I started Kip Keino Primary and Secondary School to help the needy children in my area and also other parts of the country. Mativo: Your final message to the Kenyans? Keino:  I’ve visited 187 countries during my career as an athlete and for sure there is no other beautiful place like Kenya. Let’s love our country and always preach peace, love and unity. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis