Nine-year-old Abilasha Muthoni, Kenya’s singing sensation, has waded into the recent, increased cases of child kidnapping and murder, addressing the issue in a heartfelt poem. “Stop killing us just because you have grudges with our parents, our lives are precious, and we are innocent,” she starts off the two-minute piece. “”We are innocent, hear our voices and our sorrow, stop killing us.” In it, she begs Kenyans to protect the children, claiming that the recent spate of killings has left children fearful and unsure of their futures. “Our lives should not be traded for any riches, we have a right to freedom, yet, we do not enjoy it anymore,” she says, her face full of tears “anytime, you can be kidnapped, or killed.” The Grade 4 pupil at Mary Joy Kindergarten and primary school Mombasa also appeals to parents to keep their children out of marital squabbles, possibly in response to recent incidents in which parents are reported have killed their children in family feuds gone awry. In addition, she is reminding the killers that God avenges and He will avenge for the children whose innocent blood they have shed. Her poem hits close to home, especially in light of recent events in which 12 children are said to have been abducted and killed in Nairobi by a confessed serial killer known to the public as Masten Wanjala. As if that wasn’t enough, a fortnight later, another serial killer surrendered to police, claiming to have killed at least five children. Long before that, there was the murder of Shantel, a Kitengela girl who was kidnapped and held for ransom before being discovered dead days later. In 2020, Abilasha piqued the interest of Deputy President William Ruto with a heartfelt poem in which she begged the DP to pay her school fees. The girl who claimed her mother, an uber driver at the time, was struggling to pay her fees, said their fortunes improved after DP Ruto purchased the mother of one her own car to kickstart her own uber account.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy