Reigning champion Baldev Singh Chager has finally gotten the opportunity to savour a super car during Saturday’s KCB Voi Rally where he will pilot VW Polo R5 VW Polo R5. Chager has not had much seat time in the VW Polo R5 but but believes the little he has experienced has shown that the car is a different breed compared to his championship-winning Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X. “It’s a different style of driving and I must adapt to it as soon as I can. It’s very responsive and the potential is great. I do feel positive and look forward to the countdown to the start of CS1 in Voi,” Chager said. Chager who won the season- opening KCB Nakuru Rally in February will now be the lone ranger for Kabras Sugar Racing which has previous featured Rai siblings Tejveer and Onkar. “We firstly are thankful to the almighty for this great opportunity to be behind the wheel of this great machine. I am extremely humbled that the Rai family, especially Onkar and Tejveer have given me this massive opportunity to participate in the Voi Rally in Onkar’s  Aquamist VW Polo WRC3 winning machine from the recent Safari Rally.  I appreciate this unbelievable and most generous gesture and look forward to some competitive stage miles in this car.  We will keep the Kabras, Menengai oil and Aquamist flags flying,” the Flying Singh added. However, Chager noted that he does feel low that his ‘brothers’ and teammates (Onkar and Tejveer) will not be there participating. Tejveer is currently recuperating from the high-speed nosedive he encountered during WRC Safari Rally in Naivasha. Also Read: “We constantly keep Tej in our prayers for a speedy recovery, he has always been so supportive of the team’s motorsport activities and a real pillar keeping the team together. It is a strange feeling to go down as a one car team as we have had almost 10 years of nonstop rallying together. We have had lots of fun and rallying has made us come together like family.” Chager hopes to defend the KNRC title in style this season in the Polo R5. The R5 contraption is one step below the World Rally Championship car, and a preserve of WRC2 and WRC3 competitors. “For now my sponsors have agreed to let us do the Voi event and hopefully with a good result we can potentially carry on with the same machine for the rest of the season,”   Chager added. Onkar currently tops the KCB KNRC log with 73 points ahead of Carl “Flash” Tundo (56) and Chager (54). Tundo returns to Voi with an Evolution X after driving the Minti Motorsport VW Polo R5 which he powered to victory in the ARC Equator Rally and ARC Rally Tanzania. He also finished ninth on WRC Safari and third in WRC3 behind the wheel of the Minti Polo. Other KNRC Premier Class drivers headed for the Sikh Union organised event are Karan Patel (Ford Fiesta R5), Issa Amwari, Jasmeet Chana and Eric Bengi. Chager reveals that he has some experience from the past Voi based events adding that the roads are generally very nice. “The roads are wide, sandy and fun to drive. But all depends on what we’ll see on recce and then make a plan accordingly. So we look forward to the recce on Friday to see what the route has in store for us “he said. Saturday’s event will count towards the fourth leg of the KNRC after the season’s opening Nakuru Rally, ARC Equator Rally and WRC Safari. Battle royal looms in Division 1 where joint leaders Paras Pandya and Nikhil Sachania will go for each other’s jugular. McRae Kimathi and Dilraj Chatthe are a distant third on 30 points apiece. Group N action will involve leader Jasmeet (78 points), Paras (47 points), Evans Kavisi (34 points) and Hamza Anwar (30 points). Legendary Ian Duncan tops the Specially Prepared Vehicles (SPV) class with 30 points ahead of Nikhil on 44. Duncan has nevertheless entered a Minti. Motorsports Nissan 240. RS in the classic car category. The rally will start and end at Voi Wildlife Lodge.The repeat run of Izera Ranch stage (5.45km) will be the event’s Power Stage where the top three fastest drivers will earn bonus points in the championship. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy