The One Kenya Alliance (OKA) was on Monday forced to shelve talks on its possible presidential candidate, pending further consultations. The coalition principals are understood to have resolved to maintain the name ‘One Kenya Alliance’ since they believe it has already gained momentum around the country. The principals however remained non-committal on any future dealings with Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga, the first few steps in what could be a long journey for the latest coalition in the country. The four principals; ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, his Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka, KANU’s Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetangula, converged for a two-day retreat to review the recommendations of its technical committee tasked with crafting strategies on how the coalition will carry out its operations to facilitate victory in the next general elections. Sources revealed to Citizen TV that the technical committee carried out a detailed evaluation including an opinion to determine the strength of each principal and what combinations would attract the most votes, this would also be brought before the principals during the meeting. Also lined up for discussion is the drafting of the coalition’s constitution, manifesto and a programme for nation wide campaigns that are set to be rolled out in coming weeks. Also Read: “Our technical teams have been working…we’re here to join them…guided by the great future we all wish for our country and for our children and our children’s children,” said Kalonzo. “Tunajipanga na wajumbe wetu…vyama lazima vijipange pia…kwa sababu ni competition…hii ni holistic approach,” stated Mudavadi. But the coalition shelved talks on who would be its flagbearer and how to share positions  in the alliance. Sources close to the parties said the team opted to wait for the Court of Appeal decision on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) which provides for an expanded Executive. The coalition is also opening its doors to potential allies who may want to join them, before crafting the line up. “I’m here as amicus curiae…a friend…I would really love to know what they have in regards to the mountain,” said Kieni MP Kanini Kega. Wetangula said: “We have a long queue of suitors who are waiting, and we are engaging them at different levels, men and women of absolute substance in the politics of this country who are coming to strengthen OKA even more.” The principals remained non-committal on whether they would discuss a proposal reportedly from President Uhuru Kenyatta for the team to back former premier Raila Odinga. “Sitaki kuzungumzia yule ambaye hayuko hapa…ningependa tu kuwasihi kwamba tutawapea taarifa yetu baada ya majadiliano,” said Mudavadi. “Wetangula added: “He’s (Raila) not part of the One Kenya Alliance, at least for now.” Odinga will however be within the same county on Tuesday where he is set to issue an address on what his handlers call matters of national interest.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy