Deputy President William Ruto has broken his silence, hours after being barred from traveling to Uganda for a private meeting with President Yoweri Museveni. Taking to Twitter, the DP wrote: “issorait…. tumwachie Mungu,” appearing to address his five-hour delay at Wilson Airport on Monday before his trip was canceled, forcing him to return to his Karen office. Elsewhere, his troops cried foul, with Senator Kipchumba Murkomen claiming that the situation reeked of impunity and was a flagrant violation of Kenyan law. “The Deputy President has never ever required any clearance to travel out of the country,” Murkomen Tweeted “There is NO law/regulation requiring him to seek clearance before travel for any public or private engagement,” Ruto was to travel with three ally MPs: Kiharu’s Ndindi Nyoro, Kapseret’s Oscar Sudi, and Kinango’s Nenjamin Tayari. The three lawmakers were also reportedly kept waiting for more than three hours at Wilson Airport before being cleared, leaving the DP behind. Also Read: “Sisi tuko hapa Kampala tumefika tulikuwa tukuje na DP kutembelea Yoweri Museveni, tulifika airport saa saba tukingojea DP alipofika alianza kuambiwa kuana orders from above hawezi ruhusiwa kutoka nje ya nchi,” Ndindi Nyoro said After contacting the parliament about their clearance, the three claimed they were told they didn’t need one, especially for private travel. The Kiharu MP claims that they contacted every government authority who denied issuing the orders, sending them on a round trip with no end in sight. Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga, another DP Ruto stalwart, also chimed in, accusing the State of impunity. “I condemn the refusal to clear DP Ruto for travel, keeping him waiting for over 5hrs. This is yet again a stark reminder of the extent the deep state can go to frustrate the DP. I think enough is enough. Hatutaishi hivi,” Senator Omanga Tweeted. It was not immediately clear what was on the DP’s agenda in Uganda…but his last trip in early July raised political eyebrows in the region with a section of newspapers reporting that he had sought the intervention of president Yoweri Museveni in mending fences with President Kenyatta. He is also said to have discussed business opportunities in the neighbouring country. A report in the Sunday Nation even suggested that Museveni had expressed concern over what he saw as the DP’s confrontational approach in dealing with President Kenyatta, which he feared could cost him politically. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy