Kabras Sugar defeated Kenya Cup defending champions KCB RFC  30-23 in a season clash played at the Nandi Bears Sports Club, Nandi. Elsewhere Kenya Harlequins defeated  Mwamba RFC  20-18  while students Masinde Muliro University got a morale boosting 38-10 win against Blak Blad. At Nandi Bears Kabras Sugar scored three converted tries and three penalties agaisnt KCB ‘s two converted tries and three penalties. KCB, known as the ‘Lions’,  got their first point from a drop kick which was scored by Darwin Mukidza to make it 3-0 in the third minute but Kabras got two successful scrums and won a try through Bryson Adaka who ran through the defense to score. South African Ntabeni Dukisa able converted for 7-3 ilead in the ninth minute. KCB got a scrum in the 12th minute with Darwin Mukidza scoring a penalty to make it 7-6 as the contest, close as it was, swinging from end to end. In the 16th minute Davis Chenge got a ball from a ruck running from the 22metres to score between the post and conversion specialist Mukidza made no mistake converting for a 13-07 lead. Also Read: In the 21st minute Kabras got unsuccessful maul, top try scorer Brian Tanga winning a scrum but it ended with a small knock from Gaisson Misoga. Kenyan international George Nyambua used his strength to score Kabras second try, Dukisa adding the extras to make it 14-13 in the 31st minute. Davis Chenge got a another concussion after getting another one from Kenya 15s side in the 35th minute. Brian Tanga then made a run around the 22 metres line making a one-two dribbling but was stopped by KCB’s Jacob Ojee. After three scrums from the western based side, Misoga corrected himself from an earlier knock to score Kabras third try to make it 21-13 at halftime. Samuel Asati scored the bankers second try and the first in the second half to make it 21-20  while Dukisa’s penalty in the 50th minute made it 24-20. KCB also suffered a setback after skipper Curtis Lilako picked an injury and had to be substituted beforeDarwin Mukidza scored a drop kick to make it  24-23. Ntabeni added two other penalties to make it 30 -23 at full time, Kabras claiming the bragging rights from the high-octane game. Collated Kenya Cup results -Kenya Harlequins 20- 18 Mwamba RFC -MMUST 38- 10 Blak Blad -Kabras Sugar 30-23 KCB RFC Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy