Ford Kenya, ANC and the Wiper parties have written to the Registrar of Political Parties seeking to break relationswith the National Super Alliance (NASA) party. The three principals, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetangula and Musalia Mudavadi signed the letters on Tuesday after holding a closed dooer meeting. Following the meeting, the three issued a joint brief, announcing that they will now engage other parties as the One Kenya Alliance (OKA). Nambale MP Buntanyasi Sakwa read out their joint statement, in which the three parties stated that they were leaving NASA due to a lack of trust. Kalonzo, the leader of the Wiper Party, jumped at the chance to fire a salvo at the DP Ruto camp, which has rallied around the bottom-up economic model as the elixir Kenya requires. Kalonzo claims that, lest anyone forget, he was the one who initiated the 24-economy, implying that the economic debate, as opposed to the political debate, was not started by DP Ruto. Also Read: “Nilikuwa wa kwanza kutoa mwito wa 24-hour economy, na pia tutafanya mambo ya kuboresha the Kenya economy,” Kalonzo said. The OKA is now working on a manifesto, according to Kalonzo and will soon release it. It will also include the formula by which the coalition will choose their flag-bearer. The DP’s backers have previously stated that the bottom-up conversation has resulted in the country’s first economy-centric discussions, marking a much-needed change away from traditional politics. Meanwhile, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi advised Kenyans to focus on issues that affect Kenyans, like as the mounting public debt and how to address it, rather than a tug-of-war over economic models. “NASA is now behind us, I would like the media to know that it will no longer be news if you come to us to ask us about NASA, that is done,” Mudavadi said on Tuesday “Let us not confuse Kenyans with semantics, Kenya’s problems are not academic,” At the same time, he stated that the biggest impediment in Kenya is high taxation, and that it should be the next government’s responsibility to address the tax issue. Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetangula compared their withdrawal from the NASA coalition to the proverbial phoenix rising from the ashes. The OKA phoenix, according to Wetangula, was rising from the ashes of NASA, which they had just buried. The Ford Kenya leader also waded into the debate over economic models, claiming that the vast majority of those proposing them were completely inept. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy