The first ever intercompany golf challenge Corporate Masters was held at Royal Nairobi Golf Club on July 24, 2021. The golf series brings together senior management, business owners and high net worth individuals to a networking golf tournament; taking place at various golf clubs in Kenya and the region. Blue consulting, a Salesforce CRM provider emerged the winner, followed by Luxury automotive brand BMW and the dealer; Inchcape teams in the second and third place respectively. The Individual award category was won by Ryan Mutinda carding 65 points gross. The event was graced by senior corporate leaders like Ibrahim Kiptoo, the Managing Director for Inchcape Kenya, the Marketing Director for St Andrew’s Turi Ms. Frankie Gichuru, Mr. Philip Carolan, The Head of Operations, Processing and Sales divisions for Kenchic, Former Deputy Governor for Kiambu Mr. Gerald Githinji, and Mr James Kimani, the VIP and Affiliates lead at Betlion. “We definitely want to have a day where we can have our students come and play the game of golf as we also get to network with other top brands. We look forward to partnering with corporate masters in the future in the kind of quality partnership that we have seen today” said Frankie from St. Andres Turi. “We are happy to partner with other brands and have a day on the course with our clients and potential clients and definitely in Inchcape, Corporate Masters has a partner,” added the MD for Inchcape, Mr. Ibrahim Kiptoo. Also Read: Corporate Masters also seeks to introduce the game of golf and the inherent values to the youth and juniors. ”We have partnered with World of Golf and seek to grow the First Tee concept here in Kenya. We shall be assigning patrons to schools to introduce the game of golf and the values that come with it,” said the Chairman for Corporate Masters, Mr. Peter Wairegi. The organizers stressed the need to create a great experience for golfers and spectators alike and achieve more than just golf in the tournament. Registration for the next event is ongoing. The event will be held at Windsor on 24th September, 2021. Other events in the series include Muthaiga in November and the final in Karen in December. Every qualifying team gets a free pass for the next event and the overall winner will be named in the Karen Event.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy