A school in Syokimau has been closed temporarily after gallons of raw untreated sewege spilled into the classrooms. The school administration and the surrounding community blame ongoing road constructions in Nairobi, in particular the expressway project for the spillage. Less than two hundred meters from Mombasa Road that is currently under construction, Little Bees Kindergarten and Primary school has been forced to close temporarily, at least for three weeks. The construction of the Express Highway and an access Road on Loneview has caused a diversion of sewage and storm water into the school.. The playground soaked in gallons of effluent, the classes and the rest of the property filled with sewage, Donna Cheptoo the proprietor of the school enumerating the losses incurred so far “We had to close down the school the sewage was all over the school we had to rent another place at another additional cost,” the management of the school says. Also Read: The Parliamentary committee on Environment through the intervention of area member of Parliament visited the school Tuesday demanding the Contractor-the China Road and Bridge Corporation- addresses the problem “Since the parliamentary committee visited we have seen some action by the contractor, such constructions should be cognizant of communities living close by,” Donna Cheptoo, the proprietor of Little Bees says. A similar situation at the Riruta Satelitte in Dagorreti, the contractor of the Ndumaini Road has diverted storm water to nearby homes, complaint letters to the Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Nairobi Metropolitan Services have not yielded much. “Sisi watu wakubwa tunaumwa na tumbo, tuondolewa sewage, Kukinyesha nje,  hatutakuwa na pa kukaa,” Susan Mumbi, a resident says. There is no denying that there is alot of infrastructural projects going on in the city but this is coming at a huge cost to residents living in close proximity to the ongoing projects. “We have to sort the drainage issue in the city as soon as yesterday, the problem is using old sewer lines yet as we know there is increase in pressure,more urbanization, more infrastructural growth, what is needed is proper planning,”Nashon Okowa, Engineer Construction told Citizen TV. The National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) told Citizen TV that enforcement teams have been dispatched to the affected areas, but experts in the construction sector say the city’s drainage system should be overhauled to withhold the current intensity Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis