The Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service (KUCCPS) on Tuesday announced that 265,145 students will pursue degree and TVET courses in the 2021/2022 cycle. KUCCPS Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Dr. Agnes Wahome said of these, 137,072 were placed in TVETs while 128,073 will pursue degree courses. Overall, according to Dr. Wahome, there was a 7 per cent increase in the total number of candidates who sat the KCSE examination from 688,927 in 2019 to 737,527 in 2020. “Performance of students who qualified for degree and diploma programmes increased by 14 per cent and 33 per cent respectively. Competition of students for placement was higher during this placement cycle compared to the previous cycle,” she stated. “Low number of students applied for university  placement while in schools…we provided students with an opportunity to visit the portal to apply and later revise their courses.” The KUCCPS boss said some students missed the three opportunities to apply and revise their courses, hence missing out on chances for placement. Also Read: Dr. Wahome added that a few students however chose traditional courses without actually taking into consideration the subject requirements. She said 2020 KCSE candidates can know the details of their university placement through the SMS code number 20842. Education Cabinet Secretary Prof. George Magoha, also speaking during the same forum, said the COVID-19 pandemic presented a challenge to the sector but the government ensured all teachers were still paid their dues. He also noted that the government has lived up to its promise of ensuring 100 per cent transition from secondary school to universities and colleges. “Sizable number of students qualified for degrees are choosing to go to technical colleges…over 6,000 students chose to go to technical for courses they are passionate about…teachers should take part in advising learners on which courses to pursue,” said Prof. Magoha. “I became a CS and I didn’t even want it…there are people who have been waiting and waiting…the tradition of wanting to do medicine and engineering must change.” Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy