Tusker FC coach Robert Matano says it’s not yet time to celebrate the league title following their 2-0 win against Kakamega Homeboyz in a match played Friday afternoon at the Ruaraka grounds in Nairobi. An own goal from Brian Eshihanda and in the 33rd minute and another from Mike Madoya seven minutes later  ensured the league leaders got maximum points for their visitors. With their league rivals KCB losing 2-1 to relegation threatened Vihiga United in another match at the Bukhungu Stadium, the brewers are now three points above the Zedekiah Otieno-led side in the league standings with two games to go. “We maintained our calm even after getting information that KCB were leading, we knew it was a tough facing our today’s opponents and they were determined to stop us but we had a game plan that worked,” said Matano. Going into Friday’s matches, KCB and Tusker were level on 58, though the latter still had a better goal difference. Tusker will next be facing Nzoia FC on Wednesday but the veteran tactician is under no illusion the relegation threatened side will be a tough to sink. Also Read: “It’s not time to start celebrating, we will fight to the last minute of the remaining games. Thus, we have to congratulate ourselves for the win but we still don’t have the title at hand,” a quite relieved Matano underscored. He is already looking forward to sealing his third title as a coach, but is coy to pronounce KCB are disadvantaged with the dropped points against Vihiga. “I will be happy to be the first coach to win the title three times but with my experience in the league it’s good not to count the eggs before they are hatch, “added Matano His counterpart Nicholas Muyoti lamented the team’s defensive mistakes, insisting on the importance of strengthening the department during the transfer window and adding some firepower in his attacking department. “Our defence has been leaking too much recently with our midfield creating chances for our strikers with very few conversions. It’s important to find solution to these problems before the new season begins if we have to be competitive enough, “stated Muyoti. The 2016 champions are top of the log with 61 points form 29 games and will next face Nzoia FC while HomeBoyz will host Vihiga United.  Two more for Kapaito Should they hold their nerves and winning the title, Tusker will justify their CAF Champions League ticket handed to them by the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) on June 30 as they were leading hitherto, and CAF wanted Kenya’s representatives before conclusion of the league. They have been paired with Djibouti champions Artar Solar in the preliminary round of the Champions League. In the third match of the day at the Thika Stadium, Eric Kapaito grabbed a brace as Kariobangi Sharks clobbered Nzoia Sugar 3-1, taking his total tally to 24 this season. Kapaito, who has declared target to equal league’s record of 26 goals held by former AFC Leopards hitman Boniface Ambani, now needs three goals in the remaining matches to surpass it. The win took Sharks to fourth on the table with on 47 points, level with third placed AFC Leopard who however boast of a better goal difference. Nzoia on their side are 14th with 29 points, six above relegation zone. They next host Tusker at home, in another interesting match which could give another twist in the title race. Additional reporting by Festus Lang’o. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy