Kabras Sugar head Coach Dominique Habimana expects a daunting task against leaders KCB RFC when the two local giants collide in a Kenya Cup tie this weekend at the Nandi Bears Sports Club. KCB tops the league standings with 38 points, eight ahead of Kabras who are second albeit with two games in hand. “It will be a very tough encounter which will be slightly different from the other games we’ve played but we’ll play to our level best,” said Habimana. “There are good side effects of this Covid 19 disruption, everyone had a chance to heal towards the start of the season, which was the case with KCB,” he added. Kabras skipper Dan Sikuta says though they respect their Saturday’s opponents, they are raring to face them. “For us it will be like any other game. We can only compare it like a number two competing against a number one and therefore we shall give them the maximum respect and the outcome will show how prepared we are,” said Sikuta. Also Read: Both Habimana and Sikuta believe playing at home will be an added advantage. “We always look forward to playing in front of our fans and our fans add a very special dimension to every game,” said Habimana. “Every event or activity when you play at home you have a plus because you’ve that pressure from all corners, so we have to showcase the home fans that we are capable of competing in a high competition,” added Sikuta. Both teams are locked in a neck and neck battle not only in the league but also in the battle for individual accolades with Brian Tanga of Kabras leading in the tries chart with seven tries while KCB captain Curtis Lilako comes second with six tries in the league so far. Ntabeni Dukisa of Kabras tops in the point’s category with 74 points, Tanga coming second with 35 while KCB’s Levi Amunga and Felix Ojoo have 20 points each. The last meeting between the two sides was in 2019 where Kabras reigned supreme 19-06, their first win against KCB since their promotion to the top flight league at the start of the 2014/15 season. Kenya Cup Fixtures, Saturday, August 7 Masinde Muliro v Blak Blad -1pm, Nandi Bears. Nondescripts v Resolution Impala Saracens – 1pm, RFUEA Kabras Sugar v KCB -3pm, Nandi Bears. Kenya Harlequin v Mwamba -3pm, RFUEA   Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy