I have had the glorious opportunity of representing my group of wonderful colleagues in sports from Royal Media Services Ltd, covering the ongoing Olympic Games in Tokyo. The Japanese capital is currently under state of emergency due to the COVID-19 pandemic meaning I’m unable to experience the true length of their public services and lifestyle. Those measures forbid foreigners from using public amenities but the locals involved in the Games as volunteers in press, transport and general operations have been outstanding ambassadors of the Japanese people. The Japanese conduct themselves with a lot of dignity, courtesy, humility, kindness, and exceptional restraint. I am yet to encounter the slightest hint of aggression in Japan! It’s no surprise the only words I’ve learnt so far are arigato and sumimasen which mean ‘thank you’ and ‘sorry’ respectively. I’ve heard those words (and now using them too) so much I feel they can apply to literally any situation. Driver just dropped you at your hotel? Arigato! (Often they’ll say that more than once, perhaps thrice at a go) Also Read: Volunteer just helped you find a route to your designated work area? Arigato…and so forth. Basically acts of kindness are followed by more gratitude from the person that delivered it. It’s said with a slight (depending on your enthusiasm) bow and the police are no exemption. If you got lost in Tokyo, a policeman will happily be your physical guide to your hotel or the nearest metro stations. The other day, I inquired some little information from the private driver Suzuki Hiromichi that chauffeured me to the hotel I’m residing from Narita Airport and he’s been extremely resourceful. I only asked to know where I could acquire a local SIM card but he didn’t quite have a good idea and wanted to recommend the most ideal stores. We exchanged emails addresses in the event he did. From then on he’s consistently led me to the right places, where to buy credit cards or electronic devices and the best restaurants around me. Also they do not accept tips and will only accept pay for a cab services. “It’s the Japanese way!” He said. What I’ve seen in Tokyo that the city isn’t exactly home to the tallest towers in the world with most of its skies filled with a gleefully empty space. But its infrastructure is breath-taking! The Olympic Stadium which is the focal point of the 2020 Games, for example, is a truly an elegant sports facility. The 68,000-seater has wooden eaves sticking out, which designers intended to help keep competitors and spectators shielded from the city’s summer heat. On the exterior of its seating tiers are a variety of green plants giving the venue the relaxing feel of a home for an observer on the outside. It’s only a shame that with the state of emergency, no fans are allowed in the stands with the few journalists, competitors, foreign dignitaries, sponsors and diplomats unable to truly bring the stadium alive. Across the city, the government has set up free internet connections with WI-FI booths installed along strategic points while buses and trains also have free connections for those in transit! See you in my next post! Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy