National Super League (NSL) side Kisumu AllStars want the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) to award them three points from their abandoned match against Migori Youth on Wednesday. The match was stopped after Migori Youth’s fans invaded the pitch, according to AllStars Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Nicholas Ochieng who claims the regrettable actions led to their team losing six footballs. Speaking to Citizen Digital, a visibly disappointed Ochieng condemned the actions of the Migori youth supporters who despite an ongoing ban on fans attending matches, forced their way in. “The fans wanted to attack our players on the pitch and also our team bus. There is an ongoing ban on fans but they forced their way in. They assaulted the match referee and our players holding them hostage for close to an hour. We had to be whisked away immediately after the match ended,” he narrated. Ochieng underlines that such scenes not only diminish the principle of fairness in the beautiful game but also threaten the continuity of the league bearing in mind the Covid-19 protocols in place. “We urge the federation to take stern action against them because they made it difficult for the game to be played in a conducive environment.” Also Read: The game ended in a one-all draw, leaving Kisumu AllStars at position six in the NSL log with 45 points after 29 outings. Meanwhile, Migori have expressed their displeasure after the FKF League and Competitions Committee refused to grant their request of postponing one of their August fixtures. In a press release seen by Citizen Digital, Migori Youth chairman Abdi Aziz Osman requested for their clash against Fortune Sacco slated for tomorrow to be moved to a later date as they have also to face Vihiga Bullets and Silibwet Leons in a span of ten days. We are hereby requesting for postponement of our scheduled match 34 against Fortune scheduled on 14th Saturday, August 2021, this is due to the congested schedule, having to play 4 games within a span of 10 days from 7th–17th of August, i.e., Vihiga Bullets, Kisumu All-Stars, Fortune, and finally Silibwet. “For effective sportsmanship and welfare of our players, we request the match to be postponed to a later date,” read the statement in part. This development will come as a blow to their ambitions of steering clear off the relegations as only four points separate them from 18th placed Coast Stima. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy