Kenya’s head coach for the World Under-20 Championships Robert Ng’isirei is upbeat Kenya will bag medals during the opening day of the global championships. The World Under-20 Championships is set to kick off on Tuesday, August 17 at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Ng’isirei is expecting Kenya to open her medal accounts with the women’s 3000m and men’s 5000m finals set to be held on the opening day of the championship. Japan-based Teresia Muthoni and Africa Under-18 champion Zena Jemutai will lead Kenya’s charge in the women’s 3000m race. “In the first day we will have two finals in the evening and I can say that we are going to get medals. For the women’s 3000m Muthoni and Jemutai are ready for any challenge since we have prepared very well,” Ngi’sirei said. The experienced tactician noted the threat posed by Ethiopians as they look to claim the crown that has eluded the country for a long time. Also Read: “We know the Ethiopians will be our greatest competitors in distance races and we are ready for that. We have gone without winning this title but I can assure you there will be change this time and you will see these girls on the podium,” said Ngi’sirei. The men’s 5000m final which will be the last event to be held on August 17 will involve the duo of Levi Kibet and Benson Kiplangat. “The boys are doing fine and we are only but in the final touches we know it will be competitive with some of the athletes who competed at the just concluded Olympic Games also in the field,” said Ngi’sirei. After leading Wednesday’s training session at Kasarani Stadium, Ng’isirei said his team is ready to retain the overall title Kenya won during the 2018 Championships held in Tampere, Finland. “Today we were doing workouts with sprinters and field events athletes and I am happy with the progress so far and I can assure Kenyans that the team is ready for the championships,” he added. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy