Kenya Basketball Federation Premier League men’s side Lakeside has appointed Dismas Oketch as their new head coach. He will take over from Lusaga Brian, who has been in charge in acting capacity. George Onassis will be team manager while Chris Kinyua will be fitness coach. Lusaga, who also serves as secretary of the team, has backed the new boss to shine. “He has been with the team for several years and achieved a lot as a player. The management offered to take him for a coaching clinic which he accepted and has done well so far in the coaching and we saw it was good to give him a chance to take Lakeside to the next level,” he said. Oketch said he was delighted for the opportunity adding he looks forward to taking the team to the next level. “I am truly humbled to have the opportunity to experience all the talents and give back to the game I loved since my childhood. I acquired my coaching certificate two years back and I knew such time will come even though it comes with its costs because I have to sacrifice my playing. I have to take it positively,” he said. Also Read: Oketch played for lakeside from 2009 immediately after his High School education until 2020 and he is amongst the club’s longest serving servants. The 31-year-old has also coached Kisii University and Kisii School in the past few years between 2019 and 2020. Lakeside lost 71-59 to Equity men last weekend which was their first match since March this year. They had not undertaken intense training during the break due to demanding COVID-19 protocols. Lakeside have now played six games in the men premier league, winning one and losing five and are currently in second last position with seven points. The western side will be travelling to Nairobi next weekend whereby they will face KCA University and University of Nairobi’s Terror on Saturday and Sunday respectively. These will be their seventh and eighth matches of the season in the first leg. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis