Deputy President William Ruto has continued to drum up support for the bottom-up economic model, arguing that is the elixir needed to uplift some 7 million Kenyan youth who are currently jobless. The Deputy President was addressing the media from his Karen home, where he lobbied support for the model whose meaning has recently been a subject of intense debate and in some cases, the butt end of odd jokes. The DP was accompanied by his allies in what was described as a hustler nation’s parliamentary group meeting. According to DP Ruto, millions of jobs can be created through policy change in investment. The second-in-command argued that with his government at the helm, over 15 million jobs can be created, particularly for the Kenyan population living in the bottom of the pyramid. “Amongst the 15 million at the bottom of the pyramid is about 4 million jobless Kenyans. It is our considered position that through policy change in investments — by investing not in capital intensive infrastructural programs rather investing in labour intensive infrastructural programs for example housing, cottage industry….. we can create millions of jobs,” he said. Also Read: DP William Ruto: Through policy change in investment, we can create millions of jobs. People ask where we will get the money—We are saying that by changing the economic model, we can get more done. That is the bottom up economic model pic.twitter.com/IeaKMBXrs8 — Citizen TV Kenya (@citizentvkenya) August 5, 2021  The model proposes the facilitation and enhancement of productivity of farmers, pastoralists, fisherfolk and other actors within the agricultural value chain through labour intensive investments. Under the same model is also the proposition to finance, empower hustler enterprises such as mama mboga, hawkers, boda bodas, artisans and artists among others. The proponents of the model have also suggested the implementation of a manufacturing and industrial program that prioritises cottage industries as a multiplier of national productivity. During the event, the UDA affiliated legislators claimed they had moved camps after the supposed collapse of the ruling party. “The governing Jubilee party has collapsed and the opposition NASA coalition has disintegrated,” a statement issued during the PG meeting explains “The Hustler Nation has found a new home in the United Democratic Alliance,” According to the DP camp, Kenya’s turn-around will be spurred by several shifts: the bottom-up over trickle-down economics; the people over their leaders, empowerment over power sharing and jobs over positions. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy