The Ministry of Education has extended the reporting period of Form One students to their respective schools by a week, according to a statement from the Ministry issued on Saturday. The exercise was supposed to lapse on Friday, August 6. According to the statement, the extension is to ensure a 100 percent transition of students to high school. “Whereas a majority of the students have reported to their schools across the country, there are still a number of students that have yet to be enrolled,” the Ministry said on Saturday. “The Ministry had decided to extend the reporting period by one week to enable parents/guardians enroll their children in various secondary school,” Principals of all respective schools have been directed to admit all students who report to school, including those that may not have the full fees. “Principals are directed to engage parents and guardians to make arrangements for fees payment,” the statement reads. Also Read: Candidates who sat their Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) exam in March started trooping to their respective school on August 2. On August 3, the government released Ksh.17.4 billion to fund the First Term for Public schools. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Ministry of Health said Ksh. 2.62 billion is meant for learners in primary schools while Ksh. 14.85 billion is to support secondary school students. The Ministry said the release of the funds is to ensure seamless learning in all public schools, asking all Principals to ensure that learning goes uninterrupted. “Principals are advised to keep all their learners at their respective schools to ensure no part of class time is lost during the shortened academic calendar,” the statement reads. School heads will now be required to reach out to guardians or parents of students with fees arrears to discuss best ways in which the dues will be paid. “Principals should dialogue with parents of learners with fee balances to find practical ways of clearing any arrears,” said the Ministry. At the same time, the Ministry threatened action against school heads who would be found culpable of contravening the Ministry’s guidelines on school fees. “Any additional fees outside the official guidelines will not be tolerated,” the statement adds. The Ministry also urged all parents and stakeholders to ensure that all Form One student’s report to school given that the government has already released the funds for First Term Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy