Half marathon world record holder Peres Jepchirchir believes the Olympic record of 2:23:07 can fall when the finest women over the distance clash on Saturday at the Tokyo Olympics. Jepchirchir, the World Half marathon champion was a late inclusion in Kenya’s team for the 42km race having replaced Vivian Cheruiyot who was in the initial team that was named by Athletics Kenya last year. “I can say I am very lucky to have been included in the team for the Olympics. First, it is a dream come true to participate at the Olympics and secondly it came as a surprise for me to be called upon since the team had already been selected,” Jepchirchir said in an interview with Citizen Digital. The 27-year-old attributed her inclusion to the marathon team on her record-breaking heroics last year that saw her lower the women’s only half marathon world record at Prague in September. She clocked 1:05:34 erasing the previous record of 1:06:11. It took only six weeks for Jepchirchir to shatter her own record, this time at the World Half Marathon in Gdynia, Poland where she also reclaimed her global title. She managed to lower the mark by 18 seconds. The athlete would later wind up the year with a win at the Valencia Marathon where she clocked an impressive 2:17:16 to scale to fifth in the all-time world list. Also Read:  “For me last season I had decided to work hard in anticipation of a very busy 2021 because of the coronavirus pandemic. In my mind I never anticipated I would achieve that much but it is only through God that I managed to break the world record twice and also reclaim my title in Poland,” said Jepchirchir. Jepchirchir who trains in Kapsabet, Nandi County, forms a strong Kenyan team for marathon together with world marathon record holder Brigid Kosgei and world marathon champion Ruth Chepngetich. “Having Ruth and Brigid in the team, I can assure you we have a very strong team that will bring medals in Tokyo. Our intention is to work together, we have already devised a plan on that,” she said. As she prepares to make her debut at the Summer Games in four days’ time, Jepchirchir is eyeing a podium finish. “My target is to win a medal in Tokyo but above all is to see my teammates also making the podium. In fact it is my prayer for the three of us to make the podium,” said Jepchirchir. Marathon and race walking events at the Tokyo Games were moved to Sapporo, some 800km from Tokyo due to high temperatures at the Japanese capital. While the women’s marathon is expected to be a Kenyan affair, Jepchirchir is wary of the threat posed by rivals Ethiopia. “I know every country will be sending their strong teams. I expect a strong challenge especially from Ethiopia but we are ready for the challenge,” added Jepchirchir. Ethiopia will unleash the 2019 Valencia Marathon champion Roza Dereje, the 2015 Tokyo Marathon champion Birhane Dibaba and Tigist Girma, the winner of Ethiopian trial Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy