Nakuru is facing a crisis with a spike in COVID -19 infections and fatalities as the delta variant ravages the county. The surge has seen the Nakuru record 34 deaths down from 14 in just two weeks. The spike in infections is a major concern for the county boss, Governor Lee Kinyanjui who is now urging residents to be extra cautious as his administration mulls over introducing containment measures specific to the county. “Nataka kuchukua nafasi hii kutoa tahadhari kwa wakazi wote wa Nakuru,,Hii 4th wave imekuja kwa njia ya kipekee” Governor Lee Kinyanjui said on Friday. Governor Lee Kinyanjui is now considering restricting physical congregation in churches, carrying capacity of matatus, markets and a ban on political gatherings to slow the spread of the coronavirus, warning that hospitals are becoming overwhelmed. “Haswa mikutano ya kisiasa tunataka kusema tutakuwa tunakataza hapa Nakuru kwa sababu tunaona madhara covid inaleta,” the Nakuru county boss added. Also Read: Meanwhile, a consignment of 180,000 vaccines landed on Friday morning at the Jomo Kenyatta International airport from Greece. Covid-19 vaccine taskforce Dr Willis Akhwale, saying the arrival of the AstraZeneca doses is timely as the country grapples with a spike of new infections of the Delta variant especially in the counties and in learning institutions.
Upsound Willis Akhwale, Covid-19 vaccine taskforce- “We were at a dry season, but the vaccines are now here, and we are waiting for more vaccines,” Dr Akhwale said. Representatives of the European Union Katrin Susanna and Deputy head of Mission Sotorios Demestichas who facilitated the handover of the vaccines to Kenyan authorities said cooperation with Kenya is crucial in fighting the pandemic “we are glad to work with Kenya to fight COVID-19,” Sotirios Demestichas said on Friday. Katrin Susanna, Deputy Head of Delegation- The European Union is keen on making more vaccines available The Ministry of health further reveals that as Kenya waits to receive more vaccines in the coming weeks, the uptake of the second dose by priority groups is as follows; age 68 and above 210,894, health workers 118,554, Teachers 99,544 and security officers stand at 54,746 In the meantime, Kenya has recorded 1,561 new infections from a sample size of 10,072 tested. This represents a positivity rate of 15.5%. 1 Death was recorded in the last 24 hours and 30 deaths were captured under late audits. At the same time 102 patients recovered while 1,576 are still receiving treatment in various facilities. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy