The CECAFA women’s Champions League which was earlier postponed has now been scheduled to kick-off on August 29 in Nairobi. The championship was set to kick-off on July 17 in Nairobi, but was postponed due to financial constraints from the host country as explained by the Football Kenya Federation and CECAFA. Confirming the development, the CECAFA CEO Auka Gecheo said the tournament will kick-off on August 29 to September 7, Kenya being the host as earlier planned. “After postponing the tournament twice, we have reached into an agreement with CAF to hold it on August 29-September 7. We have highlighted the financial constraints from the host (KENYA) which forced the tournament to be pushed forward and we hope for a good showpiece come then.” The tournament will involve 10 countries after Rwanda side Scandinavian pulled out citing Covid-19 challenges. After the first postponement, the tournament was therefore scheduled for August 7 but was later pushed forward due to lack of playing ground in the host nation which will be occupied for the World Under 20 Athletics championship scheduled for August 17-22 at the Moi Sports Center Kasarani. Also Read: Being the host nation, Kenya will be represented by Vihiga Queens who earlier were pooled in Group C against Scandinavian (Rwanda), and FAD Club (Djibouti). Group A comprises Lady Doves (Uganda), PVP Buyenzi (Burundi), and Simba Queens (Tanzania), while Group B will have Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, Yei Join Stars (South Sudan), and New Generations FC (Zanzibar). Auka further confirmed they are set to release the fixtures with the eventual winner of the tournament expected to represent the region in the Inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League to be held in Egypt later this year. Speaking to Citizen Digital, Vihiga Queens’s tactician Alex Alumira said the set date is okay to them as they have been throughout the training camp even before the postponement of the tournament. “I have no worries for the new date set, what I know is that we have been training all through and my aim is to win the tournament. The only challenge will be a matter of fatigue from my players who haven’t heard adequate time for rest factoring that the new season of the Women Premier League is due to kick off.” Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy