Former Gor Mahia FC head coach Dylan Kerr says the logo tattoo he inked on his leg will remain there forever as he reaffirmed his affection for the that occupies a ‘special place’ in his heart. The Briton says he was inspired by the overwhelming support he got from Gor’s fans, leading him to tattoo the club’s logo in full colour. He left Gor departed Gor in 2018 after managing a friendly match between them and Everton at Goodison Park. He said the tattoo is a permanent mark and he knew he would not erase it whatsoever for the rest of his life. The coach who was a darling for many fans and supporters led Gor to two friendly matches against Everton courtesy of the then betting firm sponsor. One of the friendlies was played in Tanzania with the second one staged at Goodison Park. Another English side Hull City also played Gor in Nairobi during his reign where Gor lost on post-match penalties. The three teams were sharing a common sponsor then. ‘’Everyone would like to be associated with Gor despite the numerous challenges the club has undergone in many years. I don’t regret having this tattoo despite leaving the club. I have been following the progress of the team ever since I left and I can say with a good sponsor, the team can still get back to its feet.’’ Also Read: Meanwhile, Kerr has observed that Kenyan football can improve only if emphasis is put on youth development. According to Kerr, the local football governing federation needs to invest heavily on youth football to ensure continuity. Second Home  Football Kenya Federation (FKF) needs to sit with teams in the top-tier league and also the youth teams and come up with strategies that can make football a lifestyle. Through proper funding of the youth teams, Kenya can be assured of some of the best footballers in the future,’’ added Kerr. He however said each team also needed a separate sponsor to add onto what the title sponsor can offer to ensure no hiccups occur. Kerr, who termed Kenya as his second home, said, however, that he is not in any way thinking of coming back to coach any football team in Kenya. ‘’For the record, I can’t rule it out. But I don’t see that happening any time. I had my time in Kenya and that was it.’’ Despite finishing eighth in the local Premier League, Gor are still back at the continental level having won the CAF Confederations Cup ticket courtesy of the FKF Cup win against AFC Leopards. They are currently coached by former Botswana’s Township Rollers Coach Mark Harrison. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis