Romelu Lukaku scored his first ever Chelsea goal – almost a decade after his debut – as Thomas Tuchel’s team deservedly beat Arsenal. Lukaku, who was at Chelsea as a teenager, started at the Emirates after his £97.5m signing from Inter Milan and looks to have given the Blues an ominous new dimension. His hold-up and link-up play caused Arsenal problems all day – and the Belgian duly gave them the lead. Lukaku was involved in the build-up and then finished the move from close range into an empty net from Reece James’ pass. James got the second himself as he slammed the ball into the roof of the net from Mason Mount’s pass to make it two wins from two in the league. Lukaku almost made it 3-0 but his header was tipped onto the bar by Bernd Leno. Also Read: Arsenal, missing centre-back Ben White through Covid, have now lost more London derbies in the Premier League this season than last – after just two games. It is only the third time Arsenal have lost their opening two Premier League matches in a season. European champions Chelsea were already being tipped as major title contenders, having been one of the best teams around since Tuchel’s arrival in January. The one thing they lacked last season was a prolific goalscorer – but they now have that in Lukaku. Five days short of a decade after his Chelsea debut, this was his 16th appearance for the club – having been at West Brom, Everton, Manchester United and Inter Milan in the interim. And he gives the Blues a focal point up top and the clinical finisher that they have missed. The 28-year-old opened the scoring when he held the ball up before playing it to Kovacic and then leaving Pablo Mari on the turf as he raced into the six-yard box to finish from James’ cross. He was also tackled by Granit Xhaka in the build-up to the second goal. Chelsea could have had more goals – with Lukaku having eight of their 22 efforts himself – including the one Leno tipped onto the woodwork. Kai Havertz went close to a third as well from Lukaku’s pass but Leno stopped his shot with his legs. The worry for Chelsea’s title rivals will be in trying to find any weaknesses. Their defence is almost unbreachable at times, midfielders N’Golo Kante – who was a second-half substitute – and Jorginho are two-thirds of the shortlist for the Uefa player of the year award, and Mount and Kai Havertz support Lukaku up front. Next up will be their biggest test of the season yet, away to Liverpool – who are also on six points – on Saturday. -Report by BBC Sport Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis