The Council of Governors has announced the postponement of the 7th and final Annual Devolution Conference, which was scheduled to take place in Makueni County from August 23rd to August 26th, 2021. The CoG said in a statement on Thursday that the postponement was prompted by the recent ban on all public gatherings and in-person meetings. “This is premised on the Presidential directive issued on 18th August, 2021, vide Public Order No. 5 of 2021 on Coronavirus Pandemic suspending all public gatherings and in-person meetings,” the statement reads. The Steering Committee stated that the new conference dates will be communicated in due time. At the same time, the CoG urged all residents of Makueni County and neighboring Counties to continue vaccinations in preparation for the conference. President Kenyatta, in a statement to newsrooms on Wednesday, noted that recent reports have shown infections increasing across several counties due to a breach of Ministry of Health guidelines. Also Read: “In particular, 18 counties have recorded a positivity rate above 20%, and over the last week, the following counties have recorded a positivity rate of above 30%: Kiambu, Nyandarua, Murang’a, Makueni, Machakos, Baringo, Meru, and Nyeri,” read the statement. “Epidemiological studies and models indicate the presence within our borders of the delta variant of COVID-19 which is more communicable and acute, and that ‘super-spreader’ events are likely to further imperil public health and exacerbate the COVID-19 situation in our country.” President Kenyatta extended the 10pm to 4am nationwide curfew for 60 days, adding that these hours also apply to previously identified COVID-19 hotspot zones of Kisumu, Siaya, Homabay, Migori, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma, Kisii, Nyamira, Kericho, Bomet and Trans Nzoia counties. The President suspended with immediate effect all physical public gatherings including political rallies and campaign meetings for 60 days as well. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis