Kenya continues to witness a rise in the number of cases and increased test positivity rate in previously unaffected areas. This owing to the delta variant that is more infectious, causing increased hospitalization and deaths. Eight counties have recorded a positivity rate of above 30% in the last week.this being twice, the national test positivity rate. While Nairobi and Mombasa still remain the counties with the highest caseload of COVID-19 with Nairobi recording 94,244 cases and Mombasa 14,992, and having the highest attack rate of the virus, the spread is escalating in the counties that were previously unaffected. Kiambu county has recorded 122 new cases in the last 24 hours, second to Nairobi. In the past three days it has recorded cases above 100. Previously, at the onset of the pandemic,Kiambu’s caseload could be accounted for by the spillover from Nairobi. Also Read: However, in the month of July, superspreader events , mostly being campaigns leading up to the Muguga ward and Kiambaa parliamentary seat by-elections are likely to have set the stage for further spread. The county was singled out by President Kenyatta among eight counties that have recorded a test positivity rate of above 30% in the past week. “Further the counties of Nyandarua, Makueni, Kiambu, Murang’a, Machakos , Baringo, Meru and Nyeri had the test positivity rate of above 30%. This owing to the Delta variant.” President Uhuru said. Kiambu accounts for the third highest caseload in the country with 14,024 . In Murang’a , the county government also shut down operations in the county headquarters with workers working from home. Further ordering the closure of bars and restaurants in two locations in Gatanga. According to the National Health CECs caucus chairman Joseph Mbai, the fatality rate currently stands at 4 %. Murang’a has recorded 2470 cases, 16th nationally “Some of the measures taken include frequent fumigation of public places, Bus terminus, Markets Hotels among other places.” Joseph Mbai said on Thursday. Machakos, has the 8th highest burden with 5865 cases while Nyeri has 3,438. Meru has 2,842 cases, Nyandarua 1,532 , Makueni 1,572 and Baringo 855; the number higher than 12 other counties. While this cumulative caseload may seem lower than Nairobi and Mombasa’s , a high test positivity rate is also an indicator that there needs to be increased testing to determine the actual picture of the level of spread. The higher the test positivity rate,the higher the number of cases there are in the community. In the last 24 hours, 1,263 more people have tested positive for COVID-19 from a sample size of 868. The test positivity rate is 14.6%. According to health experts, this current week is a crucial one determining whether the unraveling 4th wave will peak higher than the previous peaks, even as the vaccination campaign is being upscaled Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis