The attempt to review the Constitution under the BBI was the most dangerous project in the country’s history, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Speaking on Tuesday at his Karen residence during a meeting with leaders drawn from Makueni County, the DP added that BBI
would have rolled back the democratic gains since independence. According to DP Ruto, the Constitutional amendment would install an imperial president who would control all the arms of the government. “It was going to install an imperial president who would control the Judiciary, the Executive, and the Legislature. It was simply dangerous. We thank God BBI failed. Let us not lie to ourselves and to the people,” he added. His sentiments come barely a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta dared him to resign from the government over his charges against the administration. The President, in a candid chat with media editors at the State House in Nairobi on Monday, left little doubt as to the broken state of his relation with Ruto; his deputy of 9 years and running mate in two elections. Also Read: President Kenyatta told off the DP for criticising the same government that he serves yet being unwilling to ship out, hence leaving the country in a state of confusion over his stand. According the Head of State, it is not right for DP Ruto to choose what government projects to take pride and credit in and which ones to distance himself from. “I have an agenda that I was elected on, and that work must continue, and it would really be the honourable thing that if you’re not happy with it that you would actually step aside and allow those who want to move on, and then  take your agenda to the people. Which is what happens in any normal democracy, because you can’t have your cake and eat it,” he said. “You can’t, on the one hand, say ‘I’m not going,’ and then at the same time ‘I don’t agree.’ You’ve got to decide, because you must be principled in that endeavour. So that you don’t confuse people; on the one hand you want to sing the praises of a government, that you’re saying ‘we have done this’ and you want to ride on them, but yet on the other side of your mouth you’re talking another language.” At the same time, Kenyatta said the courts were misguided in their ruling that declared null and void the Constitutional (Amendment) Bill, 2020 popularly known as the BBI. Addressing the matter for the first time since the judgement was issued last Friday, the Head of State said he respects the verdict, adding that the court loss was not personal for him. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis