Machakos county First Lady Lillian Ng’ang’a has announced the end to her relationship with Governor Alfred Mutua, stepping down as the first lady. She announced the news on her Instagram account on Sunday. “The only constant in life is change and we must be present and aware to appreciate and embrace it,” she wrote. Ms Nganga claimed the winds of change had blown her way and she had severed her relationship with the governor without going into details. “Winds of change blew my way and two months ago, I decided to end my long term relationship with Dr Alfred Mutua. We had a good run and I am forever grateful to God he brought us together,” she added. She maintains cordial relations with the Maendeleo Chap Chap Party leader, according to the statement. Also Read: She also announced her resignation as Machakos First Lady through the same statement. “I put down the Machakos First Lady cap- and what an honor it has been to be of service!,” she said “I will continue to do projects close to my heart, charity work etc through the “Lillian Nganga Foundation’ as this has always formed who l am as a person. Governor Mutua would follow his now ex-wife’s post with his on Sunday, also announcing that their marriage had ended. In a carefully worded statement,  the governor said that though separated, ‘Lillian will be a close advisor as I Govern Machakos County and run for President because I trust her sharp insight and heart’ He did not give any reasons for the break-up, but claimed that they have agreed to protect and support each other in the next phase of their lives. “She has always been my number one fan. Our love for each other is permanent but I think at times, space and new directions are important,” Mutua said. According to Mutua,  the two have been a power couple, and their break-up will now allow them space and new direction. “Lillian has been an excellent First Lady and even though she will dosome projects under the Lillian Nganga foundation, we have agreed she can continue with her county projects,” he added.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy