Gor Mahia FC’s increasingly lean squad has been dealt a fresh blow after midfielder Karim Abdul Nikiema from Burkina Faso became the latest player to depart the club. He is the latest top player to leave the troubled giants with Kenneth Muguna and Charles Momanyi also exiting to join Azam SC of Tanzania and freshly minted Kenyan champions Tusker FC respectively. The player exodus follows a low season for Gor who finished eighth on the league standings – 20 points adrift Tusker. Karim joined Gor Mahia in February from Gandzasar Kapan FC of Armenia on a two-year deal but couldn’t see his contract through as confirmed by club Chairman Ambrose Rachier. “Karim Abdul is one fantastic player that we would have wished to have but he had to leave after he requested to. We had a discussion and he left on mutual agreement and we wish him all the best,” Gor Chairman Rachier told Citizen Digital. The Chairman says plans are underway to fill up the gaps left by players who opted for other options. “As a club, we have players we are targeting and we will engage them with an aim of having them on board to bolster the squad. We need to assemble the team for the coming assignments.” Also Read: Karim, who has been an integral figure during his half season at Gor Mahia – featuring in almost all matches and with good performance to take home, says he is leaving due to the situation that he has been going through at the club since he penned down a deal early this year. “I am leaving Gor Mahia because I felt it was just the right time… I feel I just need to leave. I have been through a lot I just need a break from here (Gor Mahia). The midfielder says his family has been a great source of support since he landed in Kenya through to his stay at the club. “My family has been very supportive since I came here in Kenya. The situation here has been very tough but I never complained – I guess I don’t need to complain and wouldn’t want to talk about it… I thank God I managed to finish the league healthy and without any serious injuries. “I don’t regret joining Gor Mahia because I have learnt a lot with three big coaches (Vaz Pinto, Harrison and Pamzo). I offered my very best and as I go back home, I am happy I did my best under very tough situations – and I have a medal to take home after winning the Cup trophy. It’s sad I am leaving because I would have loved to stay longer and achieve more at the club,” added Karim who left for Burkina Faso this morning. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis