Kakamega Homeboyz midfielder Shami Mwinyi Kibwana is the July FKF Premier League (FKF-PL) player of the month after a splendid month with the Kakamega-based outfit. It was a double joy for the Kakamega Homeboyz family as head coach Nicholas Muyoti is also the July FKF-PL coach of the month. Kibwana was on in sensational form in June, finding the back of the net eight times in six league outings that his side featured in. His team won five of the six matches. He began the month with a brace against Ulinzi Stars. He then set up the other goal for Allan Wanga as Homeboyz downed the Soldiers 3-1 in Nakuru, following it with another brace in the 4-2 win over Mathare United at the same venue. In the following match that was equally in Nakuru, he scored one as Homeboyz downed Nzoia Sugar FC 2-1. He experienced a two-match drought against Wazito FC and Sofapaka before returning to the score sheet in style with a treble in the 4-1 win over Kariobangi Sharks. Kibwana beat two other contestants to bag the monthly award that comes with a Sh. 50,000 token and a personalized trophy courtesy of FKF Premier League. Kariobangi Sharks’ Erick Kapaito who was equally in great form that month came in second while KCB’s David Simiyu finished third. Also Read: He becomes the seventh winner of the award after Elvis Rupia, Henry Meja, William Wadri, Kelvin Opiyo, David Odhiambo, and Derrick Otanga who were feted in December, January, February, March, May, and June respectively.  Muyoti was feted for guiding the team to five wins out of six games played during the month, outshining Ulinzi Stars boss Benjamin Nyangweso and Wazito coach Francis Kimanzi to the award. The award is accompanied by a cash prize of Sh. 50,000 shillings. Homeboyz scored 15 goals and conceded seven in the month. They beat Ulinzi Stars 3-1 in their first game before leaving it late to thrash Mathare United 4-2 in the subsequent match. They beat Nzoia Sugar 2-1 in their third game but lost by a solitary goal to Wazito to halt their good run. Muyoti’s team recovered their winning touch in the fifth game besting Sofapaka 2-1 and they closed out the month with a 4-1 win over Kariobangi Sharks. Muyoti becomes seventh different recipient of the award this season. Zedekiah Otieno, Francis Kimanzi, Andre Casa Mbungo, Stanley Okumbi, Vaz Pinto and Robert Matano have all won the award. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis