With nine days remaining before Tusker host Djibouti’s AS Altar Solar in the first leg of CAF Champions League, the brewers have continued with their rebuilding exercise as they bid to make a solid case in their quest for the CAF Champions League ticket. Last week Tusker released eleven players including experienced George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo, three first team players Chris Ochieng, Chris Onyango and Rodgers Aloro who played a big role in the title triumph. Others include shot stopper Robert Mboya, Eric Ambunya, Sammy Meja, Faraj Ominde, Mike Madoya, and Luke Namanda. At the same time time the club has signed goalkeeper Patrick Matasi, formerly of St-George of Ethiopia and Tanzanian duo Ibrahim Joshua and Protus Kirenge, from Tanzanian outfits Ken Gold FC and Namungo FC, respectively. The Tanzanian duo has signed two-year contracts with the Kenyan champions. Kirenge says it would be a nice feeling to win the league in his first season with the Brewers. Also Read: ‘It would be amazing to win the league in first season,” he said.  “I am really delighted I have joined the Kenyan champions. This is another step in the right direction in my career because this is a bigger challenge in a new league.” For Joshua, who scored 21 goals in 19 matches in all competitions for his former side, the goal is to settle  fast at Ruaraka. “I have felt at home since the first day I arrived here and I can’t wait to get started. The people are warm and my new teammates have welcomed me in a great manner. I look forward to continuing my scoring form with the club.” The trio join former Gor Mahia defender Charles Momanyi, whose signing was confirmed on Thursday last week. Momanyi, penned a two-year deal. Club chairman Dan Aduda has also confirmed more signings are on the way for the Matano-led side who won the league for the first time since 2016. “We are glad to be making two other quality additions to the squad. Kirenge played in the CAF Confederation Cup last season and that experience will be vital for us. It is also a great thing for the team that we are adding in another great goal poacher, “ he said. Club CEO Charles Obiny was pleased for having captured the players they had been eyeing for a while “These are players who we have had an eye on for a while and the coach has been very precise about getting them on board. We are optimistic that they will be a great addition to the team.” The brewers purge is expected to continue as they aim to go beyond the first preliminary round at which they exited in 2017 when they were bundled out by AS Port-Louis 2000 of Mauritania after they fell 3-2 on aggregate in the group qualification match. First leg fixtures will be taking place between 10th and 12th September, with the return leg a week later, with the aggregate winner meeting Egypt’s Zamalek in the next round. Last week Tusker tactician Robert Matano said due to Covid-19 restrictions the team might not prioritize playing friendlies outside Kenyan borders, instead Tusker will play build up matches against local teams.  Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis