AFC Leopards winger Jaffari Owiti is appealing to well-wishers to help him raise Sh. 350,000 fee needed for his knee surgery. Owiti whose contract with Ingwe runs until 2023 is scared further delay to go under the knife could worsen the injury. He has been out of action for two months following the injury, and has so far not found help from his club hence the latest development. “To well-wishers and fans, kindly support me in this because I have tried my best and the team has told me they have no money. I talked to the team doctor and he also says there is no money right now.I just want help to have this operation done,” the former Chemelil Sugar player pleaded. Owiti damaged his anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in the FKF Cup quarter final against Tusker in June. Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda admitted they have delayed in sending Owiti to hospital, owing to financial challenges. Also Read: He however promises the club will take care of the player, having already facilitated similar operations for Marvin Nabwire, Congolese Fabrice Mugheni, Tedian Esilaba and Brian Wanyama. “We are done with two as far as the surgeries are concerned and now he is next in line. The doctor must first assess him and of course a good doctor for that matter. “Its unfortunate money has been our main undoing and I have even spoken to his father who called me asking how far we have gone with this issue,” Shikanda explained. Leopards are enduring a difficult spell financially, and it has been a tall order to meet basic obligations including salaries and allowances. Lack of insurance schemes for players among Kenyan clubs has proved costly whenever players sustain serious injuries, and some careers have been cut short due to such delayed surgeries. Former Gor Mahia winger Innocent Mutiso is on record saying he was abandoned by the club when he needed medical attention, opting to hang his boots at an early age. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy