Having competed favourably in the punishing heat of Doha two years ago in the World Championships, world bronze medallist Amos Kipruto confident of a decent race in the Tokyo Olympics. Kipruto will be making his Olympic debut when the men’s marathon is held Sunday morning in Sapporo, some 500m miles from the Japanese capital, Tokyo. Organisers of the Tokyo Olympics moved marathon and walk races events from the capital due to sweltering heat and humidity which is projected to hit at least 30 Celsius. The 28 year old prevailed to win a bronze medal amidst enormous heat at the World Championships in the Qatari capital that saw many athletes drop due to high levels of humidity. “I had prepared well as we had anticipated that with my coach. It was tough as you see many athletes struggled to even finish the race. I think that experience prepared me ahead of the Olympics. In my training we used to work with temperatures in Sapporo which I think I am ready to tackle any challenge in the race,” Kipruto said in an interview with Citizen Digital. Kipruto will be joined in the start line by the world record holder and defending champion Eliud Kipchoge and Boston and Chicago Marathon champion Lawrence Cherono. Also Read:  “I think we have a very strong team both in the men and women categories. It is my prayer that we sweep the podium because I know it is very possible with the experience we have. Eliud (Kipchoge) is our leader since he has been there (Olympics) and we will work together because we have a huge task of representing our country,” he said. The athlete who trains at the 2 Running Club in Kapsabet said he is unfazed with the challenge posed by Ethiopians including Lelisa Desisa who beat him to the world title two years ago in Doha. “For us we have prepared well since April and yes I know they are strong but they will also be wary of us. They know it will be a tough battle and whoever is in good shape that day will prevail,” said Kipruto. Since clinching a bronze medal in Doha, Kipruto chalked his personal best of 2:03:30 at the 2019 Valencia Marathon. “I cannot express my gratitude for being selected to represent my country at the Olympics. For any athlete it is a dream to compete in the Olympics. I promise my compatriots to do my best on Sunday with my target being to make it to the podium,” said Kipruto. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy