The leadership of the Nyanza region threw its weight behind ODM leader Raila odinga, endorsing the former Prime Minister to contest the presidency and succeed his handshake partner President Uhuru Kenyatta. The meeting in Homa Bay brought together delegates from all the six Nyanza counties who resolved to support Odinga’s bid and urged the ODM leader to forge alliances that represent the face of Kenya to foster National Unity. The meeting convened in Homa Bay saw delegates from all the six counties forming the Nyanza bloc, including Siaya, Kisumu, Kisii, Nyamira, Homa Bay and Migori come together to pass resolutions to among other things, endorse ODM leader Raila Odinga to succeed president Uhuru Kenyatta. The Homa Bay meeting was supposed to be the first in a series of countrywide ODM conventions that were expected to end in September culminating in the formal announcement of Raila Odinga’s 2022 state house bid. “We are talking about Raila Amolo Odinga, we are talking about a product that is easy to sell, we are talking about the king of devolution,” Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti said. Odinga called on his Nyanza backyard to support his quest for National Unity, peace, prosperity and development. Also Read: “We are here to appeal to join hands as a region to have one common political course that will give us development as a region,” Raila said. The former Prime Minister also preached cohesion and forgiveness. “Let us embrace forgiveness not vindictiveness. We must make compromises and make alliances for the sake of the nation…and that is why we have started in our home area aiming to go to the national stage,” he added. He also called on Kenyans to keep themselves on the right path amidst the changing political environment. “Let us cleanse our country from the spirits of anger and bitterness, the spirit of revenge..let us go to the route that unites.,” Raila said. Nyanza leaders declared their support for what will be Odinga’s fifth stab at the presidency. “We are urging you to make alliances with the right people…you should always walk side by side with President Uhuru Kenyatta,” Kisii Governor James Ongwae said. Odinga made some passing reference to the meeting held in State House Mombasa on Wednesday, a meeting that brought together the One Kenya Alliance leaders, the ODM leader and President Uhuru Kenyatta.
UPS raila.. “Nimekuja na salamu ya Rais na vilevile nimekuja nay a wale wenzetu wa NASA kitambo sahi wako OKA, si mmepokea?” the ODM leader said. The Kakamega meeting that was scheduled to take place tomorrow has been called off in line with COVID-19 containment measures announced by the president on Wednesday.. “Hata hema jana tayari ilikuwa imewekwa,hata Wanyama wengine walikuwa tayari wamesalimu amri,” he added. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis