Nicholas Kimeli will be the sole Kenyan representative in the men’s 5000m final at the Tokyo Olympics after topping his heat with a 13:38.87 run at the Olympic Stadium on Tuesday. The 22-year-old, who won the national trials in June, will vie to become only the first Kenyan to win gold over the 12-lap race since 1988 but will face some world class competition including from the world record holder Joshua Cheptegei of Uganda. Spain’s Mohamed Katir, who won the heat that had Cheptegei with the fastest qualifying time, will be another obstacle with American Paul Chelimo who took silver at Rio 2016 also set to challenge for the top honours. Another Ugandan Jacob Kiplimo will also be in the running for glory in the race that will see a new champion crowned after Mo Farah failed to qualify for a chance to defend his title in Tokyo. Kenyan Daniel Simiu was unable to qualify after finishing tenth with his tumble in the eighth lap when he was tripped by Frenchman Hugo Hay proving costly. The other Kenyan in the event Samwel Masai did not start. World champion Timothy Cheruiyot of Kenya, a late addition to the Olympic team after initially failing to qualify, advanced to the semi-finals of the men’s 1,500 metres in his quest for gold on Tuesday in a wet Olympic Stadium. Also Read: Cheruiyot began fast as is typical of him and led for the majority of the race, only to ease off slightly at the end to finish second behind Belgium’s Ismael Debjani. The 25-year-old missed the cut to compete in Tokyo after finishing fourth in the Kenyan trials in June and only made the team after one of the qualified was dropped for not meeting World Athletics anti-doping testing requirements. Cheruiyot bounced back impressively, winning the Diamond League meet in Stockholm and following that up with a terrific victory in Monaco in July, recording a world-leading time of 3 minutes and 28.28 seconds. read more In the women’s 400m, the Kenyan champion Hellen Syombua failed to progress from the heats. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy