Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr. Fred Matiang’i is set to appear before the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and National Security to address the issue surrounding Deputy President William Ruto’s security. Matiang’i has been invited to appear before the committee on Wednesday alongside Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai. A letter issued by National Assembly clerk Michael Sialai notes that the withdrawal of General Service Unit offices manning the DP’s residences is a matter of national security concern. “The Committee has noted with concern the ongoing discourse around the security of the Deputy President more specifically, the withdrawal of General Service Unit Officers manning his residences and the subsequent deployment of Administration Police Officers. According to the Committee, this matter is of national security concern and needs to be inquired into and put to rest,” reads the letter. On Tuesday morning Ruto rubbished the summons issued to Matiang’i terming the move as a waste of parliamentary time. “Parliamentary time should not be wasted on non-issues. The Administration Police is a professional security service and those who think its a down grade are wrong. Parliament should instead focus on deployment to serious security situations in areas where bandits are causing mayhem & destruction,” said Ruto in a tweet. Also Read: PARLIAMENTARY time should not be WASTED on non-issues. The AP is a PROFESSIONAL SECURITY SERVICE and those who think its a down grade are WRONG. Parliament should instead focus on DEPLOYMENT to serious security SITUATIONS in areas where bandits are causing mayhem & destruction. pic.twitter.com/9fAbe5ugqy — William Samoei Ruto, PhD (@WilliamsRuto) August 31, 2021  On Monday the DP formally welcomed the new security team attached to his official residence in Karen, Nairobi. DP Ruto, as seen in photos posted on social media, seemingly briefed the officers before sitting down and sharing tea with them over some chit-chat. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis