Former Harambee Stars captain Dennis Oliech says Kenya must beat Uganda Cranes in their opening match of 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers, if the dream to compete in the Qatar finals is to be realistically pursued. Kenya takes on neighbours Cranes on September 2 at the Moi Kasarani before travelling to Rwanda for the second group match, and Oliech insists the two matches are a must win. Kenya are pooled in Group E of the qualifiers which also has West African giants Mali, with the top team qualifying for the third qualifying round. “Our first game will be at home against Uganda and that game is a must win. What made us lose the chance to qualify for the upcoming Afcon is starting with bad results at home. I challenge Coach Jacob Mulee to make sure we win our first game in Nairobi and the second one against Rwanda. I respect Rwanda and football being what it is anything can happen, but for sure we are way above Rwanda even in the rankings, so we should beat them at home. “If we get six points in the first two matches we will need just another win and a draw to get into into the final round,” said the legendary striker. The second match for the Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee-led team will be away to Rwanda on Tuesday, September 7 in Kigali then wait until October to make a trip to West Africa to take on Mali in Bamako. Also Read: Harambee Stars failed to qualify for Cameroon African Cup of Nations finals, set for 2022 after drawing all their home games against Togo, Comoros and Egypt. In Group G, Kenya finished third with seven points while Egypt and Comoros made it to the finals. The Pharaohs managed to collect 13 points from the six matches played with the islanders getting nine. Togo finished at the bottom of the group with two points. Mulee is currently riding high in confidence owing to good results in the last two Afcon qualifiers holding the Pharaohs 1-1 in Nairobi before defeating Togo 2-1 away. “We must also be careful about changing the squad every now and then. Minimum changes are healthy but not almost the entire playing unit. Lack of continuity affects teams because players do not get a chance to build on what they have learn. Sometimes you make mistakes but then you are batter placed for the next matches,” said the all-time Harambee Stars top scorer. The results were not enough though for Kenya, whose CECAFA neighbours Rwanda and Uganda also failed to qualify for the Afcon finals set for next year. Harambee Stars fixtures Kenya vs Uganda, Thursday, September 2 at Kasarani, Nairobi. Rwanda vs Kenya, Tuesday, September 7 in Kigali. Mali vs Kenya, October in Bamako Kenya vs Mali, October, in Nairobi Uganda vs Kenya, November, in Kampala Kenya vs Rwanda, November, in Nairobi.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy