AFC Leopards have barely five weeks to clear salary arrears of their former players and coaches for FIFA to allow them beef up their squad in readiness for the new FKF 2021-2022 season that starts on September 25. However club chairman Dan Shikanda is worried that things could get murky if the Sh10m dues owed to their former employees is not cleared on time which could impact on their transfer plans, and is calling on well-wishers to jump in and raise the money to allow the club to strengthen before the new season commences. Ingwe are owing a number of former players and coaches like Andre Casa Mbungo, former captain Soter Kayumba, Vincent Habamahoro  all from Rwanda, and Burundian goalkeeper Eric Bakame Ndayishimiye who have gone to FIFA for redress. “It’s about 10 million because there is Casa Mbungo whom we owe around Sh 7mlion and there are other players who are also on the list which makes it to be something near Sh10m to Sh12m,” he said. We have cleared what we were owing coach Marko Vasiljevic (from Serbia) who was appointed by the former regime and so we remain with Casa Mbungo, before we clear the remaining three players (Soter Kayumba, Vincent Habamahoro and goalie Eric Bakame Ndayishimiye) . I request that you people may help us raise the money,” explained Shikanda. The broke Leopards have already lost a number of first team players including Collins Shichenje who refused to extend his contract and speedy winger Harrison Mwendwa who terminated his deal. Also Read: “For the recruitment we still have an issue to sort with FIFA because there are former coaches and players who had taken us to FIFA and so we must first of all clear their salary arrears before we are allowed to conduct any business in the transfer market,” Shikanda confirmed. Ingwe will be hoping to dispense with the matter so as to rebuild ahead of next term. This season they finished a distance fourth, contrary to the lofty dreams they had set for themselves as the wait for a league title set to stretch for agonising 24 years, close to a quarter of a century. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis