Nzoia Sugar FC tactician Ibrahim Shikanda is confident his side will bag maximum points when they take on Kariobangi Sharks in their next FKF Premier League assignment, set for this Friday. The Millers produced a decent performance at their Sudi backyard on Sunday, a 2-1 win over Wazito, a performance Shikanda is keen to build on. “We played well against Wazito. We controlled the game. We are going to replicate the same against Wazito. Our eyes are set on the maximum points and nothing less; my boys are in good spirits and ready to deliver.” With the relegation battle set to intensify, Shikanda has urged his side to control their destiny by building on their impressive show against Wazito. “We don’t want to start worrying about relegation in our very last matches,” Shikanda told Citizen Digital after earning three points against Wazito at Sudi Stadium on Sunday. The seasoned tactician says he knows where to rattle the William Muluya coached side to win the tie. Also Read: “I know them all. I have played them several times while I was with other clubs in the Premier League. It’s going to be easier for us. “We are in a crucial stage of the league so we have to exploit every opportunity possible,” added a confident Shikanda. Nzoia Sugar FC are ranked 14th on the FKF-PL log with 29 points after 28 rounds of play while Sharks are seventh on the standings with 44 points, 14 points adrift of leaders Tusker FC. With three matches to go, the sugar millers are dangling on the relegation zone, five points above a resurgent Mathare United side that crushed returnees Nairobi City Stars 2-0 on Saturday. Stat attack: Four of Nzoia’s last six matches have produced over 2.5 goals. They have, however, conceded seven goals in the process. Players to watch: Millers prodigy Hillary Simiyu has scored in most of Nzoia’s fixtures and contributed to most of the side’s goals so far this season. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy