Tusker FC head coach Robert Matano insists the Brewers are firmly in the FKF Premier League title race despite relinquishing their top spot to KCB. The Brewers Wednesday lost 2-1 to Bandari in Mombasa, their second successive defeat, as their close rivals KCB edged the relegation-threatened Western Stima 2-0 to take control of the top-flight league with 57 points. With four matches to go, Matano has vowed to gather all within their strength to fight for the title they lastly won in 2016 even as the Zedekiah ‘Zico’ Otieno-coached KCB opened a two-point gap. “We’ve lost six points in the last two matches but we are not out of the race because the league is still on and as it stands, it will go down to the wire,” said Matano, who however urged his charges to remain focused in the remaining rounds. “Against Bandari, we lacked concentration and had we utilised our chances well we would not have lost the match. Our focus now shifts to the next four matches which we must win and ensure KCB drop points along the way to keep our dream of winning the title alive.” Prior to the Wednesday’s tie, Tusker had lost 1-0 at home against Naibori City Stars while KCB bounced from Posta Rangers’ 2-0 defeat to edge Western Stima. Also Read: Tusker last four fixtures will be against Sofapaka, Kakamega Homeboys, Nzoia Sugar and Bidco United while KCB will be up against Gor Mahia FC, Vihiga United, AFC Leopards and Nairobi City Stars. Following the vital win which pushed Bandari up to sixth position on the log, head coach Andre Casa Mbungo said that squad rotation helped the Mombasa based outfit scoop maximum points at their backyard. The Rwandese tactician made five changes from the team which lost to Nzoia Sugar in their last match with Hassan Iddi who scored their equalising goal getting his second league match with the Dockers. “The changes we made bore fruit because our players are tired as we are the most travelling team in the whole league,” said Mbungo. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy