Football fraternity in Embu County is mourning the demise of Kavuturi FC player Peterson Macharia, who collapsed and died after their FKF Embu North District League match on Sunday. FKF Embu branch chairman Charles Njagi said Macharia was given cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) by teammates right at the Kavutiri Grounds before he transferred to Embu Level Five Hospital where he was pronounced dead. According to Njagi, the 25-year old had been injured in the early stages of match as  Kavuturi tackled Jungle FC at Kavuturi grounds, but soldiered on to the last whistle. “After the match, Macharia complained he was not feeling well. No sooner had he raised the alarm than he collapsed. Players did their best to resuscitate him but their efforts were not enough. He fought a brave battle even at the Embu Level Five Hospital where he was rushed before the medics broke the sad news,” narrated Njagi. The FKF branch chief has urged coaches and team managers to shun fielding straining players, as precaution against such incidences saying safety comes first. Macharia’s teammate Alex Murimi says the team has been dealt a big blow following the untimely demise of their captain. Also Read: “He always pushed us to go an extra mile, pressing on the importance of winning mentality. Teams need support to secure equipped first aid kits which can be used to enable them carryout meaningful first aids. We also need regular trainings on first aid skills that can save lives in case of such incidences.” Njagi acknowledged that due to financial challenges, teams in the District Leagues cannot afford to hire medical experts as part of their benches, urging local leaders and well-wishers come to their aid so as to meet their obligations. “This should prompt Embu County government to offer free medical services to players who are seeking services in various health facilities within the county;” he concluded. According to Njagi, this is the first time such a case has been recorded in Embu County, although three years ago three players from Mbeere Sub-county in road accident as they were heading home after a match. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy