While AFC Leopards head coach has extended his stay at the den by two years, he has revealed he has made several proposals to the management to ensure his mission next season is successful. The Belgian is clear he would want to lead Leopards in restoring the lost glory, but is under no illusion the strategy to achieve it requires a key pillars currently lacking in the team. The former Simba Sports Club coach has therefore recommended that the club moves with speed to “fix” the areas he has advised to ensure they are ready for the new season. “We have guarantees for next season and I would like to help AFC Leopards to become the greatest club in Kenya again like I did with Simba. We however have some issues that the board needs to fix. It needs to be done because I have had a lot of meetings with them regarding people who can come to help us…” said Aussems. Although he did not give details who exactly he has recommended to join the den, whether players or support technical bench members, it is clear he is keen to bolster the current squad. “In the last two to three matches ago, you have seen me fielding some players you are not used to in the lineup.  I would want to try different players in different positions just to see the reaction because you get a clear picture in a league match more than in even 10 training sessions. This will give ideas for the future,” the coach said. Also Read: Meanwhile, Aussems has once again complained about the officiating standards in the Premier League, saying it perturbs him stakeholders not bothered. “I’m surprised, all my staff and the board members are raising no alarm. You know when you are a foreign coach, sometimes when you tell the referees their mistakes they take it negatively but your idea is to help them. To be honest it is frustrating,” he explained. The big contrast between Leopards and Simba – the Tanzanian champions he coached before is the financial stability, determining who is signed and the welfare of the staff. Pundits have considered Ingwe lucky to have convinced the coach to stay, and the next one month will be crucial as the team prepares for next season which kicks-off in September 26. The lost glory he refers to, just like many coaches who have come and gone, is majorly the Premier League title that Ingwe has not won for over two decades. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy