Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has announced that he will take legal action against Deputy President William Ruto over claims that he (Kalonzo) illegally acquired land in Yatta, Machakos County. Kalonzo, speaking to the press after presenting himself at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) headquarters on Wednesday, said the legal redress he will seek includes what he termed as heavy damages. The former Vice President claimed the DP hurt his reputation when he accused him of illegally acquiring the land, however adding that the DCI found no evidence to justify any such allegations. “On January 22, 2021, I presented myself to the DCI regarding the acquisition of Yatta farm. This was in response to allegations made about me by the Chief Priest of corruption that I had illegally acquired it. All relevant documentation required to investigate this matter thoroughly was availed to the DCI,” he stated. “The truth illuminated itself, and the lie has been exposed. The DCI has found zero evidence of wrongdoing on my part. We don’t intend to leave this matter here, because my rights as a Kenyan citizen were violated by this pronouncement.” He added: “My legal team is still exploring other options because, for instance, heavy damages are clearly to be considered including whatever other legal remedies we may want to pursue.” Also Read: Kalonzo then launched a scathing attack against the deputy president, accusing him of illegally acquiring various parcels of land in various parts of the country including Laikipia and Nairobi. According to the Wiper party boss, DP Ruto has a case to answer and should explain to Kenyans – as he hunts for votes in the 2022 presidential showdown – the source of his wealth. “Kenyans must be wise and seek clarity from vote-seekers about truths about their possessions and their public service track records. We cannot have a man who dips his hand into the cookie jar at every single opportunity, and at the same time, present himself as a messiah,” said Kalonzo. “The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) land in Laikipia was grabbed by William Ruto and must revert back to the State. He also took a loan at AFC to irregularly obtain land belonging to a former Vice President in Kilgoris. The National Land Commission (NLC) made a finding that Weston Hotel sits on land belonging to the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA). An attempt was even made to grab the land belonging to Lang’ata Road Primary School; poor kids were teargassed, and we stood firm with them.” Kalonzo further lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for initiating the lifestyle audit, however faulting the two Houses of Parliament for not following through with it in terms of legislation. He promised to establish the Office of the Protector of Public Interests domiciled in the Office of the President to complement the work of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) in confronting corruption in Kenya’s public sector if elected president next year. “I know that President Uhuru did talk about lifestyle audit, but Parliament must accept that they failed Kenyans with regard to the matter of bringing onto the floor of both the National Assembly and Senate the regulations governing lifestyle audit. This must become a priority,” he said. Asked whether he agrees with President Kenyatta that DP Ruto should resign from government, Kalonzo responded: “if he has a conscience, he should (resign). But if he has a heart of stone, then you will continue to see the posturing.” Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis