Western Stima FC have been relegated from the FKF Premier League following Wednesday’s 1-0 defeat to Wazito FC that took out all hope for them surviving a fourth year in the top-flight. Tusker FC were held in a barren draw at Nzoia Sugar but held their three-point advantage heading into the weekend’s final day outing after KCB dropped points in a 1-1 draw with AFC Leopards. Tusker are all guaranteed to clinch the title with KCB needing to win away at Nairobi City Stars by at least seven goals and hope the Brewers lose at home to Bidco United. At the Thika Stadium, KCB were a constant threat on attacking from the flanks against Ingwe side that boasted two consecutive wins before today’s fixture though such raids didn’t give them an advantage over Ingwe. Drama ensued a minute before the break when Collins Shivachi’s sharp header from a corner came off the crossbar before KCB’s keeper punched Brian Wanyama’s shot resulting in a corner that was peacefully cleared by David Owino. Winger Victor Odhiambo was fouled at the early stages of the second half but Michael Oduor’s dead ball hit the strong Leopard wall. Also Read: Samuel Mwangi scored for KCB in the 23rd minute before Elvis Rupia equalised for Ingwe in the 75th minute. Rupia converted a volley in the 73rd minute to equalize for struggling Ingwe, scoring his 17th goal this season. It was however not enough to harvest maximum points. Both teams tried their luck in the dying minutes to secure three points but there was no further breakthrough. KCB have now banked 59 points after winning 17 matches and leveling eight in 31 league matches while Leopards holds the fourth place with 48 points. At the Ruaraka grounds, Samuel Onyango’s lone goal was enough for champions Gor Mahia to beat Posta Rangers before Mathare United also won by the same margin against Ulinzi Stars to survive relegation. John Mwangi’s ninth minute goal was all the Slum Boys needed to retain their league slot ahead of the last match of the season. In Wundanyi, Bandari retained their third spot in the log after a 2-2 draw against Sofapaka who are coached by their former tactician Ken Odhiambo. The last round of matches in the 2020-21 will be staged over the weekend. Collated Results Nzoia Sugar 0-0 Tusker
KCB 1-1 AFC Leopards
Gor Mahia 1-0 Posta Rangers
Sofapaka 2-2 Bandari
Western stima 0-1 Wazito
Kakamega Homeboyz 1-2 Vihiga united
Mathare 1-0 Ulinzi Stars Additional reporting by Moses Ngige Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis