Gor Mahia head coach Mark Harrison says he’s interested in Clifton Miheso’s stay at the club even though the management will have the final say. Miheso is a free agent having run down his contract with the club. Talks have been ongoing but lack of finances may cripple the deal. According to Harrison, Miheso is a good player he would like to have in his plans for the new season and the continental assignments. “Yes, he is a composed player I would like to have, but this will depend on his agreement with the management. I am only a coach and if the club is able to convince him to stay, I will be happy to have him in my squad,’’ said Harrison. However, the club’s sports director Lordvic Aduda says they left the negotiation mandate with the chairman Ambrose Rachier, while admitting that money has been the obstacle in Miheso’s case. Also Read: Aduda says they are waiting for grants from CAF and the local federation,  to make further recruitment. “We gave the mandate of negotiation to our chairman and some positive progress in on. Money has been the problem here. The moment we receive our entitlement from CAF and from Football Kenya Federation, we will definitely sought out these issues amicably,’’ said Aduda. Miheso joined Gor in 2019 and was instrumental in their continental campaign last season and was on target when Gor settled for a draw in the final group stage qualifiers against Zambia’s Napsa Stars in Lusaka. Gor did bow out though, having lost 1-0 at home to the Zambians in the first leg. They are however back at the CAF Confederations Cup commencing the second week of September, and coach Harrison is keen on bolstering his squad ahead of the competition. Harrison has however declined to talk about his goalkeepers following the arrival of Malian international shot-stopper Adama Keita, bringing the total numbers of keepers at the club to five. Before Keita’s arrival, Gor had goalkeepers Boniface Oluoch, Samwel Njau, Gad Mathew, and Caleb Omondi. Assistant coach Omollo ‘Pamzo’ had indicated that they will only use three goalkeepers for the next season meaning two will face the chop. Meanwhile, Aduda has come out strongly to defend the club officials after  critics took to social media criticising the management for ‘failing the club’. According to Aduda, the officials should be given time to address various issues instead of being insulted. “Those making noise in the social media should just give the office time. We all mean well for Gor and they all know we have no money. Let them give us time to iron out issues. If they think the office has failed, then they have also failed since they are the ones who gave them the mandate through elections,’’ added Aduda. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy