The national women’s volleyball team head coach Paul Bitok says the Malkia Strikers’ inability to match the world-beaters at the Olympics stage is down to a lack of exposure to top-level competitions. Bitok is underlining the importance of international friendly matches noting, training alone without testing players against quality opponents pays little, and therefore difficult to compete with their global rivals who have invested heavily in the sport. The nine-time African champions crashed out from the Tokyo Games with a disappointing outing finishing bottom of group ‘A’ on zero points after they lost all their five matches in straight sets. “The competition at the Olympics is very high and needs a lot of preparations. Especially when it comes to international friendly matches we need to participate in as many as possible so that we can be par with our opponents. “We trained for about four months but we never put ourselves to test against any top team and I can say for sure the squad tried a lot with such conditions because besides good investments, our opponents had a couple of buildup matches prior to the competition kick off,” he told Citizen Digital. With some of his stars nearing the end of their careers, Bitok has reiterated he will continue with his rebuilding process in the squad as he seeks to guide the team to the second Olympics Games on the bounce. Also Read: “The next thing now is to embark on the new generation, the young players who’re coming up we’ve to use them and we will continue doing changes slowly so that we can have the old generation exiting gradually.” Malkia Strikers were handled by Brazil’s Luizomar de Moura at the games as head coach with his countryman Jefferson Arosti and Paul Bitok as the two assistant coaches and the trio hailed the teams’ resilience saying they will pick many positives from Tokyo. The team will now shift focus to the upcoming Africa Nations Championship set for next month in Rwanda starting from September 5 where they will be hunting their tenth continental title. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy