Gikambura Village in Kikuyu area of Kiambu County is dealing with the harsh reality of COVID-19 deaths. This follows a spike in the number of fatalities attributed to the deadly virus. According to reports, there have been at least 12 deaths in the span of one month. The dead include three members of one family who all succumbed in a span of 10 days. We returned to the village a day after the burial of the head of that family Charles Muthiora and filed the following report Gikambura village of Kikuyu area in Kiambu County the silence witnessed here paints a picture of the unease that has this village in it’s grip especially in the last month In the homestead of the late Charles Muthiora’s family, the loss of three family members is painful for those left behind Also Read: “Sina words ya kuexplain feeling enye tuko nayo…we are going through alot with losing loved ones consecutively.” Anthony Gichuru, a son to the deceased said. All was well in this homestead at the beginning of the cold month of July but the events in the weeks that followed were unbearable. It all began when Susan Muthiora fell sick around the 15th of July…she was rushed to Tigoni Level 4 hospital after developing symptoms associated with Covid19. The 43 year-old succumbed to the disease a week later. “My dad and mum waligonjeka covid almost a month ago….mum alifariki kidogo kidogo my dad akawa na complications akapass pia,” Muthiora added. As the family mourned the loss of Susan, death struck again. 24 year-old Victoria Malitui the daughter-in-law succumbed after developing complications related covid-19 adding salt to injury. “After mum kuugua my sister in law akapass the same day ya burial ya mum…alipelekwa hospitali a bit late,” Muthiora said. In this village burials have become a frequent occurence, perhaps too many and they have caused fear among residents who earlier appeared to be sceptical about the existence of the deadly disease ”Tumekuwa na shida sana na huu ugonjwa,…serikali ikuje ichanje tu watu,” Joseph Kagoho, a resident of Gikambura said.
And as the village struggles to cope with community transmission, the county government has sounded the alarm, warning residents against complacency in observing Covid19 containment measures. On Wednesday Kiambu county recorded 83 new cases of Covid19, making it the second in terms of new infections confirmed for the day, only after Nairobi County. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy