Meru Senator Mithika Linturi has moved to court to stop his arrest and prosecution over alleged, attempted rape. He claims that he has gotten hold of a letter dated 05.May if this year authored by DCI indicating that there is a looming charge of attempted rape . He argues that the alleged criminal offences have never been disclosed to him . “The petitioner risks being arrested, charged and prosecuted anytime now ……..,”reads court papers. In a document from from the DCI, a complaint was lodged by a woman who had gone to Maiyan Villas Hotel in Nanyuki with her husband and friends on the 29 January this year. The inquiry file number 21/2021 states that later that day she retired to their room and left the door open as they had agreed with the husband who was still in the company of his friends. Also Read: “At about 3 am she heard the door unlocked and since the lights were switched off she assumed it was her husband and the person got into her bed and started touching her in a very unusual manner,” reads the report. She states that she became alarmed and told the person off though he was silent and never uttered any word and that it continued for a while and they both fell asleep. “Thirty minutes later she heard a knock on the door and went to open the door only to find her husband standing at the door prompting her to switch on the lights since she was confused who was in her bed whom she though was her husband,” she states. She goes in to say that she switched on the lights, and to her shock, realized that there was a stranger in their bed. Her husband, infuriated at the discovery, raised alarm. It is her statement that her friends identified the stranger as Linturi. “It was established that the senator was also a guest though booked in another villa no 5GML.,” reads the statement Although the senator allegedly offered to settle the matter out of court amicably by offering 200,000 shillings in cash and another 800,000 shillings in cheque the senator reported a case of extortion to DCI Laikipia East and turned the couple into suspects. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy