National Super League side Kenya Police tactician John ‘Bobby’ Ogolla has urged his side to find their shooting gear to take down runaway leaders FC Talanta in their Wednesday crunch tie if they are to gain ground on second-placed Fortune Sacco. Police’s profligacy in front of goal proved costly as they settled for a barren draw against ninth-placed Murang’a Seal, and Ogolla is convinced his side can stand a chance if attackers can be clinical with their chances. “We dominated the match against Murang’a Seal but unfortunately were very wasteful whenever an opportunity to score presented itself. “We are working on this area and I expect a better show from the players on Wednesday.” With Talanta opening a seemingly unassailable lead after their weekend win over APS Bomet, three teams namely Vihiga Bullets, Fortune Sacco, Kenya Police, and Kibera Black Stars are in contention for the second and third slots on the log. Police are ranked third on the NSL log with 54 points, two points ahead of fourth-placed Kibera Black Stars while Bullets are fifth albeit with three games in hand and could go ahead of second-placed Fortune should they manage to collect maximum points in those encounters. Also Read: Against Talanta, they will come up against a side that is determined to close out the season as they are currently seven points clear of second-placed Fortune Sacco. However, Ogolla is confident that his side has the resources to go toe-toe with the league leaders. “We are not scared of them and we will treat them like any other opponent that we have faced before. “The onus is on us to show up and play to our strengths. Am convinces we have what it takes to derail their title celebrations.” Round of 34 Results Silibwet 1-1 Kibera Black Stars Fortune Sacco 2-0 Migori Youth Vihiga Bullets 0-1 Kisumu Allstars Nairobi Stima 0-1 Shabana Gusii 3-2 MCF Murang’a Seal 0-0 Kenya Police APS Bomet 1-3 Talanta Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy