Kenya Prisons men’s team head coach David Lungáho has vowed to end GSU’s dominance in the Kenya Volleyball Federation National League when the regular league hits climax on Friday at the Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) Makande Hall in Mombasa. GSU have won the regular league title four times in a row and are eyeing their 14th in total this season but the former national women’s team head coach is determined to seize the men’s title from the paramilitary side this year. Prisons won the league lastly in 2016. Besides GSU, the former champions will battle for the league honours against hosts KPA and Kenya Defence Forces after the quartet sealed the playoffs berths for finishing in the top four positions respectively, during the final league leg last month. “Every team is targeting the title and nothing else and so it will be a tough battle but we’re taking no prisoners. Our aim remains to win the title. GSU have dominated for quite some time now but that’s past and it’s about time. We’re ready and so are our opponents. Let the action begin,” he charged. Prisons have been boosted by the return of attackers Sila Kipruto, who plays professionally with Al Jawa men’s volleyball club of Saudi Arabia and Mike Chemos who turns out for Grand Nancy of France. “We’ve not been full house in the last four seasons because in Prisons we allow our players to play professional. This year all the players are around and that is a massive boost to the team as we aim to wrestle the title from our opponents,” the veteran coach said. Also Read: Lungáho’s opposite number, Gideon Tarus however has vowed to guard GSU’s dominance even as he eyes the unprecedented glory in Mombasa. Tarus, who on Monday was added more responsibilities after he was named men’s national team coach ahead of next month’s African Nations Championships in Kigali, said he was not ready to relinquish the title. “In a club level playoffs are very important than anything else because this is a journey we started in January and on Friday it will be the climax, so we must focus to ensure we win the league. It will be tough but let them bring the challenge,” he told Citizen Digital. In the women’s version, defending champions Kenya Prisons will line up against familiar foes KCB, former champions Kenya Pipeline and DCI during the three-day playoffs. The quartet finished in the top four positions respectively after the final leg of the regular season which was held at the Kamiti Maximum Security Prisons grounds in Nairobi earlier this month. The top two teams in the two categories will clinch automatic tickets for Men’s and Women’s African Clubs Championship set for next year. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis