World football governing body FIFA has cleared Gor Mahia to participate in the CAF Confederations Cup slated to kick off in the second week of September this year. According to the club’s Sports Director Lordvic Aduda, the development follows clear prove to FIFA that they had entered a payment agreement with their former coach Steve Pollack, and even paid him an advance Sh. 700,000 with an agreement for further monthly payments. “FIFA wanted us either to pay in full or agree on the payment mode and we proved to them that we had made an initial payment to Pollack and agreed on a monthly payment,’’ said Aduda. Pollack was told by FIFA to confirm the authenticity of the agreement as of July 29 lest the sanctions be lifted and according to Aduda, FIFA confirmed the existence of the agreement and so far they are in contention for the continental second tier tournament. He added that in lieu of that payment agreement, the punitive measures initially pegged on Gor Mahia are no longer in force and the FIFA disciplinary committee has lifted the case. Thus, with CAF is in the picture of the agreement, Gor can no go on with preparations for the continental championship. FIFA had written to Gor through CAF to settle or agree with Pollack on how he would get his dues before they could be allowed to participate in the CAF Confederations Cup. Also Read: He further divulged they have written to CAF stating committing to settle Tanzanian winger Dickson Ambundo’s dues once CAF remits the Sh. 6 million shillings entitlement for the club for reaching the second round of the CAF Champions League preliminaries last season. “Even CAF has not remitted what we are entitled for reaching the second round of last season’s CAF Champions League preliminaries. We were to be paid close to Sh. 6 million but some fines imposed on our players and the like means we don’t actually know how much CAF will remit to us,’’ added Aduda. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy