Gor Mahia head coach Mark Harrison is confident ahead of his CAF Confederations Cup bow with the Kenyan giants insisting that they can beat the opposition ahead. Gor were handed a bye to round one where they’ll meet the winner between South Sudanese team Atlabara FC and Al-Ahly Merowe of Sudan. “The bye is healthy for us. I will have enough preparation time and this will help players, including new recruits to train together and know each other better,” he explained. Harrison says he is privy to their kind of football played by both teams and it won’t be a big deal for Gor. “With proper preparation, this match is winnable. I know their kind of game and I will prepare well for them,’’ said Harrison. In the meantime, Harrison says he has identified at least five players in Gor who are ‘very good’ and whom he wished could stay longer with the club. He however declined to single out the individual players saying it may have implications. Also Read: ‘’Yes, I have seen at least five players in the squad who are very good but it would be unfair to mention them since it might have some negative impact on other players.’’ He said the players, according to him, will make an impact at the continental stage saying playing at the continental level needs such quality players. The former Botswana Township Rollers head coach also indicated his intention to take Gor past the group stage of the continental tournament saying it is achievable. Last term, Gor bowed out of the CAF Confederations Cup group stage qualifiers after settling for a 2-2 draw with Zambia’s Napsa Stars following an earlier 1-0 loss at home. They got another chance to bounce back to continental action when they won the sole CAF Confederations ticket reserved for Kenya courtesy of a spot kick win against AFC Leopards on July 4, in the cup final. Gor remains the only team from the CECAFA region to have won a continental title, winning Nelson Mandela Cup in 1987, now renamed CAF Confederations Cup. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis