ODM party leader Raila Odinga has accepted the Court of Appeal verdict upholding the High Court ruling that declared as unconstitutional the push to amend the Constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). Also Read: End of reggae: Court of Appeal declares BBI unconstitutional In a brief statement issued as the Appellate Court delivered the judgment, Odinga said he has moved on, adding that parties involved in the BBI process will make their own decisions on the way forward. “The decision of the Court of Appeal today is remarkable as it forms part of the continuing conversation on the future of this country and the significance of our new Constitution to the political culture we and the generations that will come after us will practice,” said Odinga. “It is likely that this is not the end of the conversation and the parties involved will each make their own decisions on how to proceed from the decision that has been delivered today.” He added: “For us, as we have stated before, we shall engage only to the extent that circumstances will require. But we feel that we have to move on.” Also Read: The ODM leader remained upbeat that issues they were trying to address through the BBI would be addressed through other avenues. “…we feel that we must now see the forest for the trees, and pursue the bigger goal of setting the rest of the issues facing this country right. The Building Bridges Initiative was never a destination but a journey in an ever evolving way of life. Without doubt, we shall deal with all the issues in the months and years that will unfold onwards,” he said. Odinga’s sentiments were echoed by other proponents of the BBI who reiterated that the conversation of the country’s unity still remained paramount. Royal Media Services Chairman Dr. S.K Macharia said:  “The decision of the Court of Appeal is not the end of BBI. The handshake which was the main product, saved the country from a potential civil war. The proposed amendments were merely a by-product. We retain the peace dividends of the handshake and that is what matters.” On her part, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru satted: ““Kenya will go on. BBI intended well but we must respect the constitutional authority of the courts and find other legitimate means to achieve Kenya’s unity and prosperity. And for some of us, it’s time for serious introspection on the political way forward.” Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said there was no loser in the whole process, adding that the rule of law was the most important thing. “Today the Court of Appeal has delivered it’s judgement. No nation can exist outside the rule of law and no constitution can exist without constitutionalism. It is therefore incumbent that we respect the Court of Appeal decision on the matter and urge that we return to nation building, strengthening our institutions as we create a better future for generations to come. There is no loser in this process . A stronger democracy, a greater Kenya,” said Kalonzo. ANC Leader Musalia Mudavadi said: “The spirit of the Constitution is bigger than all of us. We vested the power to interpret it in the courts. The judges have pronounced themselves, let us respect the judgment & focus on the revival of the economy as we foster National Cohesion.” Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis