Gor Mahia FC is in the process of identifying and recruiting suitable replacements for midfielder Kenneth Muguna and defender Charles Momanyi who left the club last month. The duo ditched the Kenyan champions on what chairman Ambrose Rachier said was on a ‘mutual agreement’, with Muguna signing for Tanzanian giants Azam while Momanyi switched to rivals Tusker FC. The club’s assistant coach Sammy Omollo ‘Pamzo’ told Citizen Digital they are looking to add new faces into the side to replace the duo before the CAF Confederation Cup kick off next month. “We need to replace the players who have left. We have a gap at the defence and we will also need attacking midfielders as well as three strikers,’’ said Omollo. The former Gor Mahia player also said one of the four goalkeepers is most likely to be axed since the current head coach Mark Harrison is only comfortable with a maximum of three shot-stoppers. Gor has four custodians including long-serving Boniface Oluoch, Mathew Gad, Samwel Njau and Caleb Omondi from the youth side. Also Read: “The head coach only wants three goalkeepers for the next season. Currently, we have four, meaning one is likely to be dropped.’’ Ever since the arrival of Gad, Oluoch has not been a regular starter and his future at the club is hanging in the balance after the arrival of experienced Njau and the promotion of the youth team keeper Caleb Omondi. Sources, however, indicate that the club is interested in the services of a Malian shot-stopper Adama Keita and is reportedly among the potential foreign recruits the club is targeting when the window opens. He featured for Mali’s Djoliba FC in the last CAF Confederations Cup competition. His arrival could further prompt the dropping of another shot-stopper from the local giants’ camp, giving Gor a totally new look between the sticks from what has been the norm. Last season, Gor lost goalkeeper Fredrick Odhiambo to Wazito FC alongside other players and coach Mark Harrison has already promised he wants to make a mark in the continental football. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy