Deputy President William Ruto now says he is too busy and will not engage any government officials especially on matters regarding the withdrawal of his security. DP Ruto who was speaking during the funeral of the late Senator Victor Prengei said he is too busy working around how the Kenyan economy will be turned around through the bottom-up approach. “Nataka niwaambie wale wanaoshuglika maneno ya vyeo, mamlaka na security, sina nafsi ya kujibizana na nyinyi,” DP Ruto said. “I may not be available to engage with you on who has security and who does not,” He continued: “I’m sorry I will have to disappoint those gentlemen who want us to talk about power and positions and security, I’m busy assembling an economic plan that will see to it that we create  jobs for the youth and security for all,” His allies among them nominated senator Millicent Omanga faulted the country’s security apparatus, saying the citizens and his allies will ensure his safety. “We want to warn the IG, mumeamua kuhangaisha the deputy president, ati mnaenda kutoa security na drivers, mko na miezi kumi na miwili,” Senator Omanga said “Deputy president atalindwa na wananchi,” Senator Susan Kihika, another DP Ruto stalwart also seized the moment, saying that the  DP allies will ensure he is protected . “Tunaona yale yanaendelea because we are not blind, we may be quiet but we see it, tutakaa na uniform na  we will guard you,” Senator Kihika said. Meanwhile, the National Police Service downplayed concerns raised over withdraw of the General Service Unit (GSU) guard at the official residence of Deputy President William Ruto in Karen, Nairobi. In a statement to newsrooms, Police Spokesman Bruno Shioso said the change of guard was a “normal re-assignment of duties within the National Police Service to enhance efficiency and effectiveness.” He said the GSU officers deployed at Ruto’s residence had been replaced with the Security of Government Buildings Unit (SGB). “Today 26th August, 2021 the Security of Government Buildings Unit (SGB) has been deployed to provide general security to the official residence of H.E the Deputy President from General Service Unit (GSU). This is a normal re-assignment of duties within the National Police Service to enhance efficiency and effectiveness,” reads the statement. The police spokesman further noted that the Presidential Escort Unit continues to provide close protection security to DP Ruto. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis