The One Kenya Alliance on Tuesday announced that it will field a presidential candidate in next year’s General Elections. The alliance; composed of KANU, Wiper, ANC and Ford-K, despite not delving into specifics, intimated that one of the party principals will be the flagbearer. The new coalition on the block also stated that their main vision for the 2022 polls will be reviving the economy of the country, further taking a shot at rival political camps for what they termed as “empty narratives and sloganeering.” “As the ‘Great Rift Valley Declaration’, we hereby unequivocally state that One Kenya Alliance will field a presidential candidate in next year’s general elections. And the candidate is here,” said the alliance in a statement. “Therefore, our main vision and mission is to resuscitate Kenya’s economy and hence, we require practical solutions to the economic challenges our people are grappling with. Empty narratives and sloganeering on economic models are not the antidote to our challenges.” The alliance added that: “What we require as a country is to intensify the war against graft in order to salvage public resources diverted for personal gains and channel them to spur our economy.” Also Read: The Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, Gideon Moi, and Moses Wetangula collective stated that it will respect the much-anticipated Court of Appeal decision on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). “Indeed, we are also aware that the Court of Appeal is set to rule on the Constitution Amendment Bill (2020), this Friday, August 20, 2021. As an alliance that believes in the rule of law, we shall accept and respect the verdict of the courts. Irrespective of the outcome, we wish to restate that our resolve to be the leadership committed to seeing a one united Kenya,” read the statement. The alliance called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to crack the whip on corruption, also urging political leaders to steer clear of incitement ahead of the 2022 polls. “As an Alliance that firmly believes in zero tolerance to corruption, we call on President Uhuru Kenyatta to unleash the full wrath of the law and rid our national leadership of people with a strong affinity for plunder. More than ever, we stand a chance to strengthen institutions mandated to fight graft through adequate funding and protection against interference,” they stated. “As we approach the 2022 general elections, we do so with full understanding of the volatility of our political landscape as a country. Many a times, we have teetered on the path of electoral violence instigated by leaders who’ve made it their personal endeavors to incite people against each other for political expediency. We urge Kenyans to shun such leaders and jealously guard our country against brinkmanship and constant threats of senseless violence.” The alliance also expressed support for the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to deliver a free and fair elections, hence dismissing any perceived actions that could serve to destabilize the elections body. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis