Kenya Breweries Limited through their brand Tusker presented the official travel kit to the Kenya Paralympics team headed to the 26th edition of the Paralympics Games in Tokyo Japan set to take place from August 24 to September 5. The travelling contingent of 54 athletes and officials is headed out to the Japanese capital where Kenya will be participating in its 22nd competition since initial participation in 1972 Paralympic Games. Speaking during the official travel kit handover to the Kenya National Paralympics Committee, Tusker Brand Manager Kennedy Mutula commended the team for their commitment and preparation for the upcoming games in Tokyo this month. “We applaud the Kenyan Paralympics team for their meticulous preparations through the qualifying stage and finally as they set out to Tokyo to represent us at the Paralympic Games. We felt it was necessary for Kenya’s Paralympians to dawn their national attire that speaks to the support they have back home. We hope this kit adds that extra bit of motivation as they travel to conquer the world as this year’s games,” said Mutula. He also applauded the work put in by the Kenya Paralympics National Committee that mirrored the company’s brand commitment to creating a conducive environment for all Kenyans to express their talent,” he added. “I applaud the work the KNPC has put into providing platforms for all Kenyans to express themselves. Through these games, we will see our Kenyan heroes and heroines don the national stripes and represent us well at the games. As Tusker, we share the same commitment in line with our brand purpose that is to bring Kenyans together to stand tall and I’m confident we will see these athletes stand tall in Tokyo.” Also Read: On her part, KNPC President Agnes Oluoch said that the team was excited about their new kits and the prospects of delivering medals at the upcoming games. “We are excited to travel to Tokyo in our new kits and we can already feel the full support of Kenyans even as we begin to travel for the games from Friday. We have prepared diligently despite several constraints in our current Covid-19 environment. We hope to fly the flag high as Kenya’s ambassadors at the Paralympics and we hope to pick up several medals at the games.” said Oluoch  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy