University of Nairobi (UON) Terror staged a strong performance to inflict Kisumu Lakeside a 77-45 loss during Sunday’s Kenya Basketball Federation Premier League clash at the Makande Gymnasium. Terror made the most of their size and rebounding prowess to limit their opponents to behind the arc shots in the first half to take a commanding 37-15 lead into the break. Lakeside mounted a serious attempt for a comeback in the third quarter but Terror’s excellent defense helped them to a 25-17 win before closing out the fourth quarter with a narrow 14-13 win. Terror head coach Eugine Kalman Genga termed their imposing victory as perfect preparation for next weekend’s high-octane clash against title-chasing KPA. “I congratulate my players for rebounding well which was integral to our defending strategy. “This win will make us believe we can go toe-to-toe with KPA next week.” Also Read: Lakeside who made their trip count by playing three games kicked off their weekend schedule by defeating Kenya College of Accountancy (KCA) 68-47 before falling to Kenyatta University (KU) Pyrates 63-32 and UON Terror 77-45 on Sunday afternoon. With many teams electing to take a break before next weekend, their jam-packed schedule took a toll on them as they failed to replicate their impressive display on Saturday, losing by a 30 point margin in their last two matches of the weekend. Their implosion on Sunday was also an indication of the ground they have to cover in terms of preparation, having previously taken a two-month hiatus following the government’s decision to ban sports activities in Kisumu county which is among the 13 western counties that were put on lockdown. Lakeside skipper Basil Ogembo attributed their Sunday travails to fatigue while lauding their progress so far this season. “We are a self-sponsored team in the league and we always wish to play as many fixtures as we can we are away from home because of the cost implications. “Am happy with the way we have played and the fact that we return home with at least a win gives us hope that we can improve in many respects. Lakeside will hope to turn a corner from their struggles next week when they host Umoja at Manyatta Arabs in Kisumu Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis