National Super League (NSL) champions-elect Football Club Talanta played out a dull 0-0 draw against Silibwet Leons at the Bomet Stadium on Sunday to extend their lead to 11 points ahead of second-placed Kenya Police. Talanta who will be crowned NSL champions next Sunday after a stellar campaign this season fielded a relatively inexperienced squad with head coach Ken Kenyatta electing to give opportunities to fringe players, and they did not disappoint as they held off a barrage of attacks from the Silibwet attackers to earn a point. Kenyatta expressed his delight for their enviable achievements this season, singling out the playing unit and management for playing critical roles in the team’s first promotion to the Kenyan topflight. “Am glad that the lads who started today played well. I wanted them to feel the competitive end of the game and am delighted they managed a point against a side that is fighting to avoid the chop. “The players have been fantastic throughout the season and the management made our work easier by handling their functions very well,” he recapped their season. Kenyatta who took over the reigns at Talanta in December 2019 has managed to help the Gems Cambridge-based side secure their first promotion to the FKF-Premier League and is happy to lead the outfit that was established in 2012 to their biggest achievement so far. Also Read: “I took full control of the team in September last year and am proud of what we have achieved so far. “Earning promotion is not an easy feat more so in the NSL and I congratulate the boys for getting the job done early so that we can focus on preparing for life at the topflight.” A point for their hosts, Silibwet, who failed to honor their midweek clash against Coast Stima was a welcome outcome as it steered them clear of the relegation zone as they are now on 40 points with two matches to go. Head coach Evans Mafuta expressed his satisfaction with their performances so far reiterating that they’ll stage a better show next season. “Am contented with the growth we gave exhibited this season as a team and I can guarantee our fans that we’ll be among the contenders next season. “We struggled at the middle but am happy we found a formula to end out campaign strongly and I believe we have a good foundation to build on next season.” Silibwet will play Soy United on Wednesday before concluding their season with a derby clash against local rivals APS Bomet while Talanta will host Gusii FC in their coronation fixture next Sunday. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis