Global technology giant Huawei has launched a new home energy storage solution in Kenya. With a growing number of homeowners jumping on the solar bandwagon and turning their houses into power plants, the LUNA 2000 unveiled by Huawei FusionSolar is expected to play an even greater role in this unprecedented energy transition. Speaking during the launch of the new solution, Huawei CEO Will Meng said the company is keen on investing in solar energy research and development. “It is indeed in our best interest to increase the uptake of solar as a reliable, safe and efficient renewable source of energy in Kenya. We pledge to continue listening and acting upon our customers’ needs, increase our investment in solar energy research and development,” said Will Meng. “For many years, we have developed our expertise in energy solutions to power base stations and data centers, and installed our first solar energy solutions almost 15 years ago.” Energy Principal Secretary Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge, who was the chief guest at the event commended Huawei’s new innovation: “I am very delighted to witness this launch because I know it will be one of the sources of success to achieving our Vision 2030 dream. In the energy act 2019, renewable energy is one of the critical subjects devoted in the act and this product meets those requirements. I would like to thank Huawei for launching this product in Kenya.” Also Read: LUNA 2000, the flagship product of Huawei FusionSolar Residential Smart PV Solution, is a residential energy storage system (ESS) for optimal electricity cost. In addition to increasing the self-consumption rate of solar energy, it provides critical support during power outages or load shedding. The home energy storage system also unveiled in countries including Australia, Italy, Vietnam, Netherlands and now in Kenya is equipped with backup power boxes to keep your internet and household appliances on. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis