With three games left to the end of the  2020-2021 FKF Premier League campaign, AFC Leopards assistant coach Tom Juma is confident they will earn a third-place finish. The Ingwe legend is well aware that coming third behind Tusker and KCB is the only possibility going by the log standings after 30 rounds of play. “As far as I know we are number three because there are our three points which were docked and everyone knows about that,” he explained, pointing to the docked points for the Mashemeji derby snub that has ideally left them at position five with 44 points, 14 shy of the leading pack Tusker and KCB who are all on 58 points. He continued: “Number three is most likely where we will finish and it’s what we want because when you look at our tally we can definitely not go past Tusker or KCB. So our objective is to finish third this season.” Leopards hammered Vihiga United 3-1 at Thika Municipal Stadium on Saturday to hit 44 points in position five. Juma is also happy to see the Leopards improve especially after finishing sixth last season and surviving relegation the previous season by a whisker. Also Read: “Very good, this season has been, so good going by the position we are in. It reflects how good the campaign has been. When you compare with the previous seasons, the last two, then it really shows you that this season has been very good. We were nearly relegated the previous season and last season we finished sixth, even with the Covid-19 challenges now we are finishing third. It is a clear testament of improvement,” Juma concluded. Last season saw the Football Kenya Federation declare Gor Mahia champions in the middle of the campaign due to the coronavirus pandemic hence closing the doors for Ingwe to fight for the title. This season, the FKF has also declared Tusker FC as the CAF Champions League representatives after finishing top on June 30 but allowing the league to complete. The 12-time league champions will face Ulinzi Stars this Thursday at ASK Nakuru before meeting title contenders KCB and lastly playing Kakamega Homeboyz to complete the season. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy