A Siaya Member of County Assembly (MCA) has admitted to receiving a bribe from the Governor’s office to conceal corruption issues in the county. The confession by West Asembo MCA Ambrose Akuno comes despite a move by Siaya County Assembly Speaker George Okode to defend the MCAs over bribery allegations last week. Last week during a press conference at the County Assembly precincts, Mr. Okode denied claims that Siaya MCAs had been compromised by the executive to cover up on the over Ksh 600 million graft in the county saying that those were mere rumors. A list had been doing rounds on social media of a section of Siaya MCAs who had allegedly been given bribes of up to Ksh 290,000 each by the governor’s office to cover up on alleged misappropriation of at least Ksh 600 million but the Speaker dismissed the allegations. The West Asembo MCA says he was given Ksh.150,000, an amount which he only came to realize later that was part of the bribe handed to his colleagues. Mr. Akuno, who has been sick, spoke to Radio Ramogi from the hospital where he stated that he cannot deny receiving the money adding that he was visited at the hospital by a section of his colleagues and given the money which to him he thought was a contribution to support his medication. Also Read: He says that he suspects that the move to give him the Ksh 150,000 was a trick to silence him since he has been the most vocal on corruption matters within the county. The Siaya MCAs were allegedly given the bribes after they refused to pass the County’s Appropriation Bill for the year ending 2020/2021 after it emerged that there was no explanation as to why bursaries had not been released, Project Management Committee (PMC) monies not paid and statutory deductions not remitted. But Mr. Akuno argues that they should just pass the Bill to rescue the county government workers and contractors who are currently suffering, then forward their findings on corruption allegations to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) for action. On whether he will return the Ksh.150,000 that he received without knowledge that it was part of a bribe given by the Executive, Mr. Akuno stated that he does not know the exact place to return it. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis