Deputy President William Ruto has said he is not to blame for the collapse of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). The Deputy President said the process did not take into account the opinions of the majority of Kenyans including himself. Dr. Ruto said he could not have been wrong if the courts were in agreement with his stand that BBI had serious constitutional flaws. “How can anybody hold it against me today that I did not support the BBI when I clearly stated my position on matters that are controversial and unconstitutional yet the court has vindicated me that BBI had constitutional challenges,” said the DP. He was speaking on Thursday at his Karen residence during a consultative meeting with grassroot leaders and opinion shapers from Nyeri County. Ruto added that had the proponents of BBI listened to the issues he had raised, they would have ended up with a document that would have received support from across board. Also Read: He maintained that he executed his mandate of advising the President on the shortcomings of BBI. He said: “My responsibility as the deputy president is to advise the president, in accordance with our constitution, as I see it. And I did my duty and informed him of the mistakes in BBI.” “It would have been a big mistake if I had not raised the issues yet I knew those issues were there,” stated the DP. At the same time, Ruto told his political opponents that he was not available for a shouting match as he was busy with his bottom-up economic revolution. Ruto advised those in the opposition to seek an alternative agenda instead of engaging in pointless character assassination. “I have seen some members of the Opposition trying to have me engage them in an altercation, sorry I am going to disappoint you, I am busy with bottom-up economic revolution,” he said. The Deputy President assured Kenyans the bottom-up economic model will be implemented with the same energy and resources allocated to Government projects like the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). MPs present were Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Rehema Mukami (Nyeri County), Rehema Jaldesa (Isiolo County), Halima Mucheke (Nominated), Falhada Iman (Nominated), Purity Ngirici (Kirinyaga County), Njuguna Wanjiku (Kiambaa), Anab Gure (Garissa County), John Muchiri (Manyatta), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) and Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central). Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis