Self-confessed serial killer Masten Wanjala on Wednesday led a team of homicide detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to a home in Bungoma County where he claimed to have buried some of his victims after killing them. Wanjala, who is said to have killed at least 12 people so far, also confessed to have sodomised and sucked the blood of his victims. The homicide team, headed by Martin Nyuguto, pitched tent in the county where the 20-year-old man hails from for the better part of the day. The team visited Sosio village in Kamukuywa ward, Kimilili Constituency, where one of Wanjala’s victims – identified as Emmanuel Wafula (9) – was allegedly killed before his body dumped in a pit latrine in February 2019. The decomposing body was discovered days later in the pit latrine by a neighbour who then raised alarm. The death of the Class Two pupil at Kingstar Academy irked area residents who are said to have soon after stormed the homestead where the body was found and torched it. Also Read: Police officers previously arrested the owner of the homestead, Haron Ajenga, on suspicion of being behind the minor’s death. Mr Ajenga died last year in August at Webuye County hospital after battling an illness. Mary Ajenga, the widow of the deceased, said her husband who was out on bond died due to stress of being accused of being behind the boy’s death. She expressed shock after learning that her husband was not the perpetrator of the crime as detectives probing the cause of the minor’s death said the 73-year-old man could not possibly have been behind it. Mrs. Ajenga now says she wants justice for her late husband who now seems to have been vindicated. She added that her niece, who by then was living with them, was seriously beaten and injured by the angry mob and has never recovered to date. Mrs. Ajenga said that when police officers visited their home to remove the body of the minor then, Wanjala was present as he lived around at the time. Gladys Wafula, the mother of the minor, said that she has not yet come to terms with the loss of her second child. “My son was very jovial and we all thought that it was the old man who had killed him, only now to be told that it was not Mzee Ajenga who killed him but Masten,” she said. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis