The Kirinyaga County Government is set to build a top of the range golf course to boost the sport and also create opportunities for golf tourism. Speaking during Kirinyaga County (Abai) annual golf day-2021 held at Thika Greens Golf Resort in Murang’a County, the governor appealed to Kirinyaga professionals and investors to consider investing in the establishment of the golf course. She said that the time for Kirinyaga to have a golf course is ripe since there is suitable and available land set aside for the purpose. The proposed golf course is set to be established on the 250 acres Thigirici Land which will also accommodate, a sports academy, a gymnasium, a tennis court, a swimming pool, conference halls as well as an industrial park. The land, which is situated in Sagana was reverted back to the county after a protracted legal battle between the county government and a private developer who had been allocated the land illegally. The governor noted that that the land, which is adjacent to the railway station is suitable for a golf course since it has a favourable rolling terrain, is close to Sagana River and is easy to access through the upcoming Kenol-Makutano-Sagana-Marua dual carriageway. Also Read: She pointed out that golfing and other sports activities as well as the other establishments within the land will lead to socio-economic development of the county and will also lead to appreciation of property value in the area, to the benefit of the locals. “The golf course is a huge development milestone since it will be the first one in the county hence will be very marketable”, said the governor adding that all the neighboring counties have golf courses apart from Kirinyaga, which is now catching up. Waiguru termed the tournament, which was jointly sponsored by Kirinyaga County Government, Kirinyaga County Golfers and Rotary Club of Kirinyaga among others, a huge success having attracted 250 professional golfers and more than 100 other stakeholders interested in investing in the project. She said that the event was also an opportunity for the County Government to create awareness about the proposed golf course project among other projects and programs that the county government has been implementing towards the achievement of the county’s development blueprint “The Mountain Cities 2032” which is being implemented through various departments.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam