The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) has called on the DCI to move with speed and probe the Monday killing of a renowned businessman and chairman of the peace and reconciliation committee in Marsabit County. Halakhe Waqo, known better by the locals as ‘Councilor Matta’, was gunned down by unknown hitmen at around 7pm Monday on the eve of the International Day of Peace. In his message of condolences, NCIC Chairman Dr. Samuel Kobia said Mr. Waqo will be remembered for his immense contribution to the peace process in Marsabit County. “He demonstrated his distinguished sense of dedication and sincere commitment towards the search for long-lasting peace, stability and prosperity in Saku Constituency and Marsabit County in general. Worthy of particular mention was Mr. Halakhe’s regular presence and active participation in the peace dialogue and consultative meetings of newly constituted Marsabit Peace and Reconciliation Committee,” said Dr. Kobia on Wednesday. He added: “We call on the Director of Criminal Investigations to investigate swiftly the heinous killing of the Peace and Reconciliation Chairman… The killers must be relentlessly pursued wherever they will be until they are held to account.” Waqo, was a vocal peace advocate in Marsabit. Just a week ago he led members of the Borana community in a recently constituted reconcilliation committee in an attempt to find a lasting solution to the recurrent conflict that has dogged Marsabit for several years. Also Read: Meanwhile, the NCIC Chairman has called on Marsabit leaders, particularly the political class to remain committed to the path of peace, and the residents to refrain from any acts that will exacerbate the already volatile situation in the county. “We assure the communities in Marsabit that we shall remain steadfast in facilitating peace dialogue meetings at all levels with County leaders, Peace Committees and law enforcement agencies until a durable peace is achieved,” said Dr. Kobia. Marsabit has been the at the center of protracted fighting between the two major ethnic groups in the County—the Borana and the Gabra. The conflict ranges from simultaneous attacks within the same day, or consecutive days especially along the Saku-North Horr Constituency border. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam