Tusker FC captain Eugene Asike says their hunger for more glory after lifting the Kenyan Premier League (FKF-PL) title has been key in overcoming the fatigue that would obviously come with a long season concluded last month. Tusker had no break after lifting the title, as the CAF Champions League preliminary matches were starting almost immediately, their first opponent being Djibouti’s Arta Solar 7. Thus, the Ruaraka Brewers pitched camp in Mombasa one week after the grueling season, before jetting out for the first leg of their two matches against Solar 7 in Djibouti City. And, with Solar 7’s return match slated for this weekend fast approaching, Asike submits fatigue aside, they are ready for the task ahead. “We can’t start saying we need a day off because the games are coming thick and fast and we need results. I believe there is a time that will come and we be given a break but for now it is just a matter of taking every game as it comes with full focus on positive results. “So, we have an important fixture coming this weekend against Solar 7, and we are really looking forward to that game so that we can register a positive result and advance to the next round,” said Asike. Also Read: The centre-back was part of the players who also featured in Harambee Stars international duty against Uganda and Rwanda just after the culmination of the season. Others were striker Boniface Muchiri, Jackson Macharia and the outgoing youthful striker Henry Meja, who has signed for Swedish top league side AIK. Head coach Robert Matano during the FKF-PL Awards Gala on Tuesday night told guests that fixture congestion had taken its toll on players during the Covid-19 interrupted season. “It was a very challenging season. The compulsory breaks due to Covid-19 and fixture congestion made it difficult but we had to keep the focus to the end,” said Matano, who now has to steer the team to challenge for continental glory and retain the Premier League title. At the same time, Asike is optimistic the information they got about the quite unfamiliar Solar 7 will be vital in efforts to seal a second round berth of the continentals. “Definitely once you play a team you are not used to, you get finer details about them than you do when you watch their videos. The technical bench has their work cut out as it is for all of us ahead of Saturday’s match. Playing at home will be easier because in Djibouti the weather was too hot for us, because 35 to 36 degrees Celsius was not too much for us,” he offered. The captain is also aware of the job ahead of them in the local league, saying they will have to step up in their bid to retain their trophy. “Of course all eyes are on us now, we are the champions and we need to defend the title. With the new players we have signed I believe we have a great season ahead as long as we keep the team spirit we had last season,” the eloquent Harambee Stars defender explained. Next week Tusker face rivals Gor Mahia in the FKF Super Cup, the curtain raiser for the season before kicking off the local league season proper on October 2. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam