Bungoma County has received has received a Ksh.1 billion grant from the UK goverment for the decongestion of its capital and expansion of critical infrastructure projects. Deputy British High Commissioner Julius Court who visited the county said the funding will go towards improving social amenities to support growing urbanisation in Bungoma Municipality as well as making the area climate smart. Bungoma was among 12 Municipalities that bagged a Ksh.1 billion grant in 2019 over a three-year period from the UK under a programme dubbed Sustainable Urban Economic Development (SUED). As a beneficiary, Bungoma Municipality will receive expert advice in urban planning, training on urban management, investment promotions as well as cashing the Ksh.1 billion seed capital to fund infrastructure development and value chain projects. Managed through the UK’s Department for International Development (DFID), SUED is a £70 million (Ksh.7.7 billion) five-year programme that will support up to 12 fast growing municipalities in Kenya to plan their urbanization better, improve links with larger markets that were previously inaccessible and prepare for climate-resilient and sustainable growth. The grant came on the back of a winning proposal on the County’s demonstrated desire to improve its urban infrastructure as part of its plans to attract critical investments, opening up farms to markets and kick-starting high potential value chain projects. Also Read: Speaking at the event, Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said part of the grant will go towards decongesting Bungoma town and easing movement within the Central Business District. “Today marks the beginning of the making of Bungoma City. With the funding, we will build a state-of-the-art market cum Bus Park in Bungoma,” Governor Wangamati said as he received the High Commissioner. Governor Wangamati had earlier written to the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing, Urban Development and Public Works requesting for the delineation of boundaries of four urban centres in the County including expanding Bungoma Municipality to cover Musikoma, Kabula, Tuuti Marakaru, Bukembe West, Sang’alo West, South Bukusu and West Bukusu. Currently, Bungoma Municipality only covers Township and Khalaba Wards. “With our municipalities covering more wards, we shall be in position to allocate part of these grants to improve infrastructure in satellite wards and help open farms directly to markets,” he said. The Governor committed to ensure continuous engagement with donors and other entities keen to fund urban infrastructure and livelihoods in the County. Speaking at the event, CS Devolution Eugene Wamalwa said the project primes Bungoma as a possible city in the future after Nakuru. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam