Gor Mahia have acquired the signatures of seven players to bolster their squad ahead of the new season and the CAF Confederations Cup campaign. According to the club sporting director Lordvic Aduda, the players will be officially unveiled in two days after forwarding their details to the federation. ‘’It is true we have signed seven players. We intend to forward their details to the Federation before we can officially unveil them to the public,’’ said Aduda. Aduda has in the meantime said of the seven players, only three are foreigners while the remaining four have been acquired from the local market. Even though he was reluctant to release their details,  Citizen Digital has established that former Kariobangi Sharks Ugandan import Peter Lwasa and Dennis Ngáng’a from Wazito are among those who have penned a deal with the record champions. Malian international shot-stopper Adama Keita who has been training with the team, even before the break has also been absorbed. Also Read: Aduda has said they will write to CAF to request for addition of names to the list forwarded previously who will feature at the CAF Confederations Cup. “Our situation is understandable. We were under FIFA transfer ban but now that we have been cleared, we will write to CAF to allow us to add names to the initial list forwarded to them. Some of the players we have recruited will be really instrumental in our continental campaign hence the need to include them,’’ explained A Gor Mahia will on Wednesday this week play Tusker FC in the Super Cup, a curtain-raiser ahead of the season kick-off. They will thereafter begin their league campaign against last season’s runners-up KCB over the weekend. ‘’We trust our technical bench and we believe they will deliver this season. It is just a matter of time before Gor gets back to its favourite number one position. The players we have recruited are quality players who deserve a place at Gor.’’ Alluded Aduda. The club official is on record saying Gor was to carefully balance between recruiting expensive players against their financial muscle saying they were in the process of identifying affordable and sustainable players. This is after some of their former players reported them to FIFA over non-payments as at the termination of their contracts, which led to the transfer ban on Gor which has since been lifted. ‘’It would be of no need to sign expensive players who will later sue us and lead to hefty fines. We are going to work according to our financial ability,’’ Aduda explained. The signing of left-back Dennis Ngánga from Wazito is possibly a precaution following the injury incurred by Geoffrey Ochieng, and who is set to miss the entire first leg of the campaign, having gone under the knife. Gor finished a distant eighth last season on 45 points, 20 behind winners Tusker FC., their worst run in the last eight years. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam