Gor Mahia FC defender Geoffrey Ochieng will miss the first half of the new season after undergoing a successful anterior cruciate ligament surgery. The left-back suffered an awkward landing during their FKF Premier League clash against Kariobangi Sharks at Thika Stadium in July. Club assistant coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo has said the team doctor assessed that the player could be out for up to eight months. His absence leaves Ugandan Fred Nkata as Gor’s only option at left back, a position which will now be a priority for reinforcement. “We only have Nkata on the left back and this calls for scouting as we wait for Ochieng’s full recovery,’’ Pamzo said. Ochieng was pushed by a Sharks player while airborne before the ugly landing. Also Read: Meanwhile Pamzo also said the club is hunting for a lethal striker. Pamzo says despite having local and foreign strikers, they did not score many goals last season hence they have been forced to go back to the drawing board. “Football is about goals and we did not score many last season in all competitions hence some serious business needs to be done in that department.’’ In the run up to the end of last season, two dependable strikers Jules Ulimwengu and Tito Okello failed to turn up on the very last match day where Gor ended their campaign on a 2-0 thrashing by Nzoia FC. It was not clear why the two player opted to stay away from the match but coach Pamzo read some sinister motive which the players were yet to come clear about. ‘’They did not turn up nor did we get any prior notice of their action. I think they are up to something that they have not told us. Their absence led to our poor performance.’’ KÓgalo, who are Kenya’s representatives at the CAF Confederations Cup will be attempting to bring home the trophy they made history in 1987 when they became the first team from the CECAFA region to win, then known as Nelson Mandela Cup. With a number of their key players having left, the technical bench will need to be very keen while recruiting to ensure they bring in talents worth playing for the giants both locally and at the continental level. Pamzo has said, however, with proper recruitment and preparation, Gor will get back to its feet. The office has been under constant attack on social media for flawed recruitments even though  a number of football stakeholders have come to the defence of the executive citing lack of money as the main cause of problems at Gor. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis