Vihiga United relegated from top tier league as Kenya Police FC are promoted to Football Kenya Federation Premier League following 1-0 victory during their second leg playoffs at Utalii Grounds today. Unfriendly attack from Vihiga defender Ayieko Prince against Erick Kipkirui earned the men in uniform a penalty. Oduor Mustapha blocked Alvin Mangeni’s penalty kick but Clinton Kananga used a rebound chance, putting the hosts ahead with a goal at the 33rd minute. Police coach John ‘Bobby’ Ogola, applauded his players as he plans to sign new talent, to improve in their KPL fixtures ahead. “Am very happy we are finally back to KPL. I will have to do some changes to strengthen the squad. I won’t change the whole team but few areas that need a change,” said Ogola. The match was stopped for three minutes during the first half after police fans tried to interrupt the match as they celebrate Kananga’s goal. Also Read: Odongo Lesley twice and Omondi Stewart efforts to save the Western-based Vihiga were futile as the ball hits the post. Mike Mururi, Vihiga coach accepted the defeat despite the go-slow from his players who are planning to leave the club. “Yes! I have few players who want to leave the club. I can’t hold a player when there is green pastures ahead of him. My players have been on go slow, even training has been hectic as attendance turnout was alarming,” said Mururi. Inspector of police Hillary Nzioki Mutyambai congratulated his boys, as he argues with the cheering squad to observe MoH Covid-19 protocols. “I urge the fans, to come and support the national police service. We aren’t going to advocate for violation of MoH protocols. The disease is a big threat than anything else,” echoed Mutyambai. Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Hajj who was in attendance also applauded the boys and promised to be attending the men in uniform fixtures. Vihiga United who finished 16th last season in top league will now join the National Super League side after a goal draw and one goal defeat away. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam