Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter and his Petroleum & Mining counterpart John Munyes on Tuesday snubbed summons by Senate’s Energy Committee in which they were required to respond to last week’s fuel prices hike. In his response to the summons, CS Keter said fuel prices did not fall under the purview of his ministry, as he passed the buck of responsibility to the Petroleum docket. CS Munyes, who is presently out of the country, on his part requested to push the hearing by the Senate Committee to Wednesday next week. Senators slammed the pair for skipping the hearings with members of the committee proposing to take up the matter to the whole House on Tuesday afternoon. “Where does the CS Energy get the audacity to say this matter does not concern him? We know both the high fuel and electricity costs are related. This country is hurting,” said Senator Moses Wetangula, a friend of the Committee. “CS Munyes ought to have cut short his visit and respond to the summons. When you raise the price of fuel, everything else hits the roof.” Also Read: On his part Narok Senator Ledama Olekina blamed Parliament for its role in passing legislation to pass on higher taxes for petroleum even as his views were met by backlash from fellow committee members. “Kenyans are pissed at the Executive but they should be pissed at us as we are the ones who pass the legislation. We as Senate for instance passed the Petroleum Act which resulted in the petroleum development levy,” he said. Other members however sought to absolve the role of the Senate in the passage of key tax legislation insisting the role falls squarely under the scope of its sister- the National Assembly. In an interview with Citizen Digital, Chairperson of the Senate Energy Committee Ephraim Maina said the House will seek a route to force down taxes and levies placed on petroleum products to alleviate Kenyans from the runaway fuel costs which have also had a knock on effect on the prices of other goods and services. “We are reviewing to see where we could intervene legally to put checks on the rising fuel costs,” he said. “I cannot personally say the hit on taxes is only on petroleum products. Look at unga prices, wheat flour. Kenyans are even up in arms over high school fees. Wananchi wamefinywa pande na pande kila pahali.” Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam