Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has now disclosed some of Deputy President William Ruto’s properties, including a 22,000-acre estate, a 5-helicopter hangar, and a slew of private homes. While appearing before the National Assembly’s Security Committee on Wednesday morning, CS Matiang’i termed DP Ruto as Kenya’s most protected second-in-command since independence, pointing out that he has some 51 police officers guarding his expansive estate. Matiang’i told the committee that there are six police officers guarding Kitengela gas, 4 manning the 395-hectare Murumbi Farm in Transmara Narok and 6 others providing security at the DP’s 6073- hectare ADC Laikipia Mutara Ranch. The other listed properties guarded by police officers are:  Dolphine Hotel, Mombasa (LR. No. MN/1/3266)-3 Hectares (6),  Mata Farm – Taita Taveta (LR. No.10287/10 & 11) 2537 Hectares (6),  Private Residence Elgon View Eldoret (4),  Koitalel Poultry Farm Eldoret (4),  Private Residence in Kosachei Eldoret (3 Prisons, 1 AP),  Kwae Island Development Ltd – Wilson Airport (2 Hangers and 5 Helicopters) (5). This is in addition to some 121 officers from the Administration Police (AP) and Prisons Services who are providing security at the DP’s various residences. Also Read:Ruto the most guarded DP in Kenya’s history with 257 bodyguards – Matiang’i Also Read: There are also 74 Presidential Escort Personnel, 6 officers from the DCI and 5 drivers from the GSU who are at the DP service. While shedding light on the re-organisation of the DP’s security, the Interior CS said the DP’s residence is not part of what is considered a ‘protected area’ where GSU officers provide security. “DP Ruto house is not a state lodge or a State House, the law is very clear it is his residence…… we in the security sector work to be right in terms of making decisions & not to being popular,” CS Matiang’i explained. According to the Interior Ministry boss, DP Ruto has 257 officers deployed to guard him as well as secure his residences and properties. In comparison to previous holders of the office being held by Ruto, Matiang’i demonstrated that all previous vice presidents had only 14 officers from the Presidential Escort Unit assigned to them yet Ruto has 74. For the officers guarding residences of previous vice presidents, all of Ruto’s predecessors had between eight to 16 officers assigned to them while Ruto has 183. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis