The national men’s volleyball team Wafalme will serve off their African Nations Championship campaign Wednesday against former champions Egypt in a tricky pool ‘D’, following the conclusion of the draws held Monday night at the Kigali Convention Centre. Kenya’s other opponents in the group, seemingly the toughest in the championship, are 2015 bronze medalists Morocco and neighbours Tanzania. The opening fixture between Kenya and Egypt will be a repeat of 2017 where the two clashed in the first match of the championship held in Cairo, with the North Africans emerging winners in 3-1 sets. Defending champions Tunisia, who are eyeing a record-extending 11th African crown and their third in a row, will launch their title defence against Nigeria Tuesday in pool ‘B’. The pool also has South Sudan and Ethiopia. The 2019 runners up Cameroon were drawn in pool ‘C’ against DRC Congo, Mali and Niger while pool ‘A’ has hosts Rwanda, Burkina Faso, Burundi and Uganda. Kenya’s head coach Gideon Tarus welcomed the draws but warned it will be a tough start for Wafalme against Egypt who have lifted the continental title eight times. However, he was bullish he has enough quality in his Kenyan side to stage a good fight against any team. Also Read: “We’re in a pool of death and we expect a very tough competition from Egypt and Morocco and also the Tanzanians will not be pushovers. We’re ready to challenge them and advance to the quarter finals,” he said. Head of the Kenya’s delegation Charles Nyaberi said Wafalme must put their best foot forward if the country is to improve its fortunes in the men’s team at the biennial championship. “We met Egypt in 2017 and they came down a set to win 3-1 so this time round we must be much focused to contain them. If we get a win against Egypt, then that will give us a massive boost ahead of the other two fixtures against Morocco and Tanzania. Our target is to reach finals,” said Nyaberi, who is also the Kenya Volleyball Federation first vice-president. Kenya skipped the 2019 edition of the biennial premier championship held in Tunisia and they had finished ninth in the previous edition that had attracted 14 nations hosted in Egypt’s capital Cairo. This year’s championship which runs until September 16 has attracted 16 teams. Full Draw Pool A: Rwanda, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Uganda Pool B: Tunisia, Nigeria, Ethiopia, South Sudan Pool C: Cameroon, DR Congo, Mali, Niger Pool D: Egypt, Morocco, Tanzania, Kenya Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis