Business tycoons and politicians from the Mount Kenya region have endorsed ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential candidature. The leaders projected Odinga as the ideal successor to build on the foundation laid by President Uhuru Kenyatta. They were speaking on Tuesday during a gathering in Nairobi bringing together business tycoons and the political elite drawn from the larger Mount Kenya region. They hailed Odinga’s weekend tour of Mount Kenya as a sign of better political fortunes, saying that he would cement President Kenyatta’s legacy as well as ensure stability and continuity. “We want somebody who will takeover and there will be continuity in the kind of development projects that have been started. Secondly, somebody who will not disturb our businesses and thirdly somebody who we can sit with and agree on how to go forward,” said Titus Ibui, Mt. Kenya Foundation Vice Chairman. The meeting came against the backdrop of Odinga’s animated weekend long charm offensive of Central Kenya that culminated with an impromptu rally at Nairobi’s Githurai area. Also Read: The leaders hailed the ODM leaders dare devil manoeuvres in the Mount Kenya region to break what has been described as Raila phobia. “Nobody ever thought that you could climb Mt. Kenya and climb down without slipping,” stated Peter Munga, Mt. Kenya Foundation Chairman. Odinga’s Central Kenya tour was described as the opposition chief’s triumphant entry into Mount Kenya, with the leaders vowing to campaign for the former prime minister ahead of the 2022 presidential contest. “If you are going to Mt. Kenya, you don’t have to look for followers. Followers will come to you so long as you inspire them. So, you don’t have to seek followers,” added Mr. Munga. “We must change the narrative. Our previous task was to tarnish Raila’s name and attack him. I don’t want to repeat those words,” said Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia. “You started climbing the mountain yesterday. Ordinarily it takes seven days to climb the mountain. Yesterday you started and went halfway within one day. The next time he does it, he will be at the peak,” said Kieni MP Kanini Kega. Central Kenya leaders presented Odinga with the region’s priority issues including security, agriculture, business, water shortage and youth unemployment. “We need to be assured that private property will be respected anywhere in this country. We cannot be foreigners in our own country. We are citizens of Kenya like everybody else,” said Priscilla Nyokabi, Commissioner, Gender Commission. Royal Media Services Chairman Dr. SK Macharia challenged Odinga to ensure the stability of the nation and empowerment of youth in the country. “Without President Uhuru Kenyatta there would be no handshake. We salute him for that. We ask him to leave that handshake to good hands so that it can continue,” said Dr. Macharia. Odinga on his part invoked his historical ties with the region including his alliance with retired President Mwai Kibaki and the grand coalition. “Together with Kibaki we sat together we our think tank and came up with vision 2030. It was aimed at transforming this country from this country from a third-world economy to a middle-income status by 2030,” said Odinga. “The only person that I think known what President Kenyatta is trying to do to transform our infrastructure is Raila Odinga. If you want President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy to continue it will be in the safe hands of Raila Odinga,” said Siaya Senator James Orengo. With a large population and a host of influential personalities, the region has become a must-win vote basket for every presidential hopeful and the ODM leader hopes the endorsement will open more doors in a region that has been a huge mountain to climb in previous elections.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam