Gor Mahia head coach Mark Harrison now says his players are yet to adopt  to the level of play he set for them despite a convincing 2-1 win over last season’s runners-up KCB in a League opener played at Thika Sub-County Stadium on Saturday. According to Harrison, the team is headed in the right direction but still needs more of them. “They have not met my expectation yet, but we are headed in the right direction. I have identified some silly mistakes we made and we shall work on them before the next match,’’ explained Harrison. Harrison at the same time took issue with the level of officiating on the match day citing ‘blunders’ by the centre referee. The former Botswana’s Township Rollers coach said they were denied several penalty appeals. “Even a layman could see we were denied goal opportunities in the box. I mean, this is not fair. The referees should be up-to-the task and ensure the smooth flow of the game,” he explained. The return of youthful striker Benson Omalla after a short stint in Sweden is a big boost to K’Ógalo . The young striker was the hero of Gor’s win bagging a brace to ensure maximum points for K’Ogalo. Also Read: The Briton coach has at the same time took issue with the goal Gor conceded terming it as ‘silly’. The goal by Henry Ochieng came from a defensive mix-up which left Ochieng only with shot-stopper Mathew Gad to pull one back. In another high-profile match of the weekend, another giant Tusker FC dropped three points in their League opener. Leopards went to the match as underdogs having failed to recruit following a FIFA transfer ban. The lone goal by Musa Saad was enough to hand the defending champions a false start, just as was the case with runners-up KCB earlier on Saturday. Debutants Vihiga Bullets tightened the noose to deny Bidco United maximum points in a match that ended in a 1-1. Talanta FC, who were also making their debut in the top tier league snatched a point from Wazito FC in a match that ended in a barren draw while Polisi FC became the only debut side to lose after a 1-0 defeat to Kakamega Homeboyz, away in Kakamega. Gor Mahia and Tusker are in the meantime preparing for the continental assignments with Tusker slated to meet Egyptian giants Zamalek in the CAF Champions League while Gor face Sudan’s Al-Ahly on October 16 in the CAF Confederations Cup. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam