Vihiga Queens assistant coach Alex Nyamuyamu has told off his Tanzania’s Simba Queens counterpart Selemani Makanya to forget about signing his players at this time when they are preparing for take part in the inaugural Caf Women’s Club Champions League. Jentrix Shikangwa converted a last-gasp penalty to power the Queens to a 2-1 victory over Ethiopia’s Commercial Bank as the Kenyans won the Cecafa Women Club Championships title at the Kasarani Stadium on Thursday, to book a ticket to the continental championship set for November in Cairo, Egypt. And aware of the tough task that beckons and cognizant that his girls could have caught the eyes of suitors after the stormy run, Nyamunyambu is taking no prisoners, telling the Tanzanians to lay off his charges, at least for now. He said: “When CECAFA tournament was going on, Simba Queens’ manager approached me on his quest to sign my three lethal players but us Vihiga we are not allowing any of them out. Simba (players) are the ones who should scramble to be signed by us so that they get exposure in the forthcoming inaugural CAF Women Club Champions League in Cairo later this year,” Nyamunyamu hit back, alluding to the approach allegedly made to tournament’s Most Valuable Player and Golden Boot winner, Jentrix Shikangwa, Violet Wanyonyi and Terry Engesha who starred in the campaign. In the meantime, Nyamunyamu who took over the reins from the team’s long-serving former coach Alex Alumira has appealed to the National Government and the Ministry of Sports to chip in and assist them in all ways possible to help them realize their dream. “We are appealing to our Government and well wishers to assist us. We need good training ground; playing kits, and financial motivation, by doing so they will have boosted our morale going to the CAF Champions League,” he noted. Also Read: On her part, Shikangwa believes that the forthcoming CAF Champions League presents an opportunity to break into European leagues. “This is the moment I was waiting for. Personally I will work hard, despite receiving some offers from big clubs already, I am sure more offers will come so I urge the team in general to utilize the chance because this is their future and the only opportunity is the CAF Champions League,” she said. On Sunday ODM Leader Raila Odinga gave the team Sh500, 000 as a token of appreciation to boost their preparations ahead of the continental tourney. Eight teams will take part in the Finals, among them, Wadi Degla SC, AS FAR (Morocco), AS Mande (Mali), Hasaacas Ladies F.C (Ghana), Rivers Angels F.C (Nigeria) and Malabo Kings (Equatorial Guinea). Others are the Queens (Kenya), and Mamelodi Sundowns Ladies of South Africa. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive