Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) have apprehended the main suspect in the brutal deaths of three men in Kilifi’s Junju B village in July this year. The suspect, Robert Mganga, who went into hiding immediately after the event, was flushed out of his hideout at Ambuja Court, in Tassia’s Fedha Estate, according to a police report released by the directorate on Saturday. “Mganga, is believed to have masterminded the attack on Kilifi businessman and farmer Sidik Anverali Mohammed Sidik, 46, James Kazungu Kafani, a land agent who was in his late fifties and another unidentified man of Indian origin believed to be Sidik’s driver,before setting ablaze their vehicle, a white Toyota Fielder,” the police report says. He was reportedly nabbed by Special Service Unit (SSU) detectives on Friday around 10.30 a.m. in a sting operation. According to the report, he previously eluded a police dragnet, prompting the DCI to deploy the elite Special Service Unit to track him down. According to the detectives, some of Kazungu’s family members claimed that their family member was murdered by people he knew. “It was established that the three were on a land buying mission in the area and had toured a piece of land that Sidik intended to buy, before they were attacked by a machete wielding mob that butchered them to death,” the DCI said on Saturday. According to witnesses, the late Kazungu pleaded with the attackers in their local Giriama dialect, begging them to spare their lives, but the assailants, who were determined to kill them, would not listen. Detectives familiar with the case said the bodies of the three slain men had deep cuts on their heads and appeared to have been dragged on the ground for a distance before being left sprawled by the roadside near Junju secondary school. They believe the suspect, who is scheduled to be arraigned in court, will aid in the investigation and arrest of his co-conspirators. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive