Deputy President William Ruto’s communications team has now called out Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr. Fred Matiang’i for what it termed as exposing the country’s second-in-command to security threats. This comes after CS Matiang’i appeared before the National Assembly’s Security Committee on Wednesday, during which he listed some of Ruto’s properties and firmly stated that he is the most guarded deputy/vice president in Kenya’s history compared to all his predecessors and even former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. DP Ruto’s Communications Director David Mugonyi however, in a subsequent strong-worded letter, accused the CS of lacking the understanding of his (Ruto’s) security concerns. According to Mr. Mugonyi, CS Matiang’i’s revelations before the floor of the House were aimed at humiliating and ridiculing the DP, terming them as abuse of office “to score cheap points.” Mr. Mugonyi further stated that, matter of factly, some of the properties listed by the Interior boss do not even belong to the DP. “By singling out the Deputy President and casting adverse attention to the particulars of his security arrangements the Cabinet Secretary discriminated against the Office and the person of the Deputy President, potentially exposing him to further security threats,” stated Mr. Mugonyi. Also Read: “To underscore Matiang’i’s recklessness, many properties allocated to the Deputy President in his statement to Parliament are in fact not his. To add insult to injury. Matiang’i asserts that he has deployed security officers to these unknown strange properties.” He added: “In any event, the Deputy President went on record as early as 2018 to announce his readiness to undergo a lifestyle audit per the President’s directive. This false association with strange and fictitious properties is therefore unnecessary and malicious.” The DP’s Communications Secretary further slammed CS Matiang’I for comparing the office of the DP, as it currently exists, to those that came before the new constitutional era. Mr. Mugonyi said that the matter of the DP’s security was settled by the National Security Council, hence any abrupt changes should have been communicated and approved first. “It is dishonest of Dr Matiang’i to compare offices form an obsolete constitutional and historical era, and which preexisted the Office of Deputy President, when it is elementary that the Office of the Deputy President is established by the 2010 Constitution,” he noted. “The Deputy President does not deploy security to himself or to anyone else. When he assumed to office in 2013, the National Security Council had already established a security model for the Presidency and constitutional offices. Any change to the arrangement would have been discussed and formally approved at the appropriate level.” Mr. Mugonyi also accused CS Matiang’i of using the platform provided to him by Parliament to allegedly propagate falsehoods about the DP’s properties and security deployment. “The Cabinet Secretary desecrated the hallowed precincts of Parliament, exploiting it as a forum to propagate malicious falsehoods and assaulted the dignity of that institution by recklessly publishing inaccurate data purporting to be the property interests and security deployments of the Deputy President. In fact, most of the property listed DO NOT belong to the Deputy President,” he said. “The Deputy President was not elected in August 2021. He has been serving since 2013. It is deceitful and fraudulent of Dr Matiang’i to wake up today and suddenly realise that the Deputy President’s residence is not a protected area and not entitled to GSU protection.” He added: “This realisation nine years after the fact, in the context of many other orchestrated political events, schemes and machinations against the Deputy President clearly indicate that Dr Matiang’i was acting in explicit pursuit of a malevolent political agenda.” Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis