The cost of living has soared once again this month with the inflation rate peaking at 6.91 per cent from 6.57 per cent in August according to new data from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS). The spike in the cost of living is greatly attributable to the recent unprecedented jump in fuel prices which sent the average cost of petrol past Ksh.135 per litre. The higher fuel costs have had the effect of pushing up the transport index by 1.17 per cent with city bus fares rising by 0.64 per cent according to the KNBS data. Further, the housing, water, electricity gas and other fuels’ index has shot up by 0.91 per cent, mainly as a factor of the elevated fuel costs. The cost of 50 units of electricity has for instance increased to Ksh.903.95 from Ksh.893.21 in August. Other divisions to register a jump in prices over the period have included restaurant and accommodation services, personal care, transport & communication and alcoholic beverage. Also Read: Food costs have meanwhile stubbornly remained high over time with its index rising again by 0.11 per cent in September. Among the food items to see a costs jump in the period include carrots, oranges, cabbages and onions. On the flip-side, the cost of sifted maize flour, tomatoes and spinach have marked a cool-down in September. September’s rate of inflation is the highest since February 2020 (7.17%). While the cost of living remains elevated, the rate of inflation remains anchored within the government target range of 2.5 and 7.5 per cent over the medium term. Whilst noting elevated risks from inflationary pressures, the Governor of the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) Patrick Njoroge indicated the reserve bank was keeping up with the costs pain as it looks out for second-round effects from inflation. “The current principal drivers would not react to monetary policy, its not like we are sitting doing nothing. We can use monetary policy to constrain local demand so as to have a lesser impact on inflation. In effect this would be demand side management,” he said on Wednesday. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam