Gor Mahia FC will resume training on Thursday as they prepare to face off with Tusker in the Super Cup slated for next week. According to Gor assistant coach Sammy Omollo ‘Pamzo’, the technical bench will prioritize discipline talks before embarking on any other issue. Omollo says they witnessed some cases of indiscipline cases last season which they need to address before ‘things get out of hand’. “Some players behaved contrary to to the terms of their contracts and we need to correct this,’’ Omollo said. He referred to the case last term where two strikers – Jules Ulimwengu and Tito Okello – did not show up for the last match of the season which ended 2-0 in favour of the visiting Nzoia FC. “The management has talked to them but we still feel it is uncalled-for for a player on contract to snub training and eventually a league match. We have a busy schedule and without discipline, we cannot make it.” Omollo alluded that no more player is expected to leave after Kenneth Muguna, Charles Momanyi and Abdul Karim left on mutual agreement. He
said they will be beefing up their squad ahead of the new season set to commence on September 26. Also Read: ‘’As of now, no more player has made open his intention to leave. We trust they will stay back and help the team. We will also recruit ahead of the transfer window deadline to fill all the vacant positions,’’ said Pamzo. Earlier this week, the club sporting director Lordvic Aduda stated that they had paid all their former players who had sued them before FIFA for non-payment upon termination of their contracts. The two players, Ugandan Shafique Batambuze and Tanzanian Dickson Ambundo, received their payments through their lawyers, according to Aduda. Notable absentee in the squad expected on Friday include defender Geoffrey Ochieng who is expected to sit out eight months nursing ligament injuries following a successful surgery in July. Meanwhile the fate of goalkeeper Boniface Oluoch and Azam midfielder Kenneth Muguna over the fine imposed on them by CAF for unsporting
behaviour remains in the balance after sporting director Aduda said those were individual fines and not club fines. The duo was fined Sh1.5 million each alongside a four match CAF Club competitions ban after investigations by the continental disciplinary body established that they accosted a South African referee in Zambia after he awarded Azam a last minute controversial penalty which was converted by NAPSA Star’s Emmanuel Mayuka. ‘’We have settled our debts with NAPSA and they have written to confirm we have repaired the damages caused in the dressing room. The other fines imposed on players were individual fines and not club fines,” explained Aduda in an earlier interview. Gor is awaiting the winner between South Sudanese side Altabara FC and Al Ahly of Sudan. This is after the Kenyan giants got a perfect node and was given a bye to the first preliminary round of the CAF Confederations Cup. Bar for 1987 when they won the then Nelson Mandela cup, the furthest Gor has gone in this tournament is the quarter final stage in the 2018-2019 season. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive