Gor Mahia FC chairman Ambrose Rachier has urged the Government to dip into the Sports Fund to sponsor Vihiga Queens ahead of the inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League scheduled for November 5-19 in Cairo, Egypt. Vihiga Queens edged Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) 2-1 in the CAF Women’s Champions League CECAFA qualifiers’ final at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on September 9 to qualify. Speaking to Citizen Digital Rachier lamented had the Sports Fund had not been utilised effectively since its inception to sponsor national teams and support Kenya’s sporting talents. “The fund is a total disgrace. I only hear that is exist but personally I haven’t seen anything huge it has done to aid the sports sector. A good example is of my club Gor Mahia, we are really struggling financially since our sponsor pulled out, and these are the times that Government should chip in. “I was so happy to see Vihiga clinch the Cecafa tournament and qualify for the CAF Women Champions League. That alone is a very big achievement not only for them but for the whole country. They are struggling financially and lack even the basic things as a training ground so the Government has to step in and help out,” Rachier said. Rachier who is in suspension from the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) after his team alongside AFC Leopards skipped the Football Kenya Federation Premier League Mashemeji Derby in August 2021, is optimistic that the ladies will do wonders in Cairo if given full support. Also Read: “This team is composed of very talented girls and every stakeholder should chip in and offer them support. I was happy also seeing FIFA Secretary general Fatma Samoura accompanied by the federation’s Chief Women’s Football Officer, Sarai Bareman gracing the CECAFA finals in Kasarani stadium saying it’s something which hasn’t happened before. Vihiga queens have intensified their training ahead of the continental showpiece as they are on the verge of acquiring six new players to boost their depth and quality. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam