Vihiga Queens assistant coach Boniface Nyamunyamu is optimistic that they will defeat Simba Queens when the two sides lock horns on Monday, September 6, 2021, in the semi finals of the CAF Women Champions League CECAFA Qualifiers at the Nyayo National Stadium. The Boniface Nyamunyamu coached side finished second in Pool B behind Ethiopia’s Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) and will be playing against Tanzanian giants Simba, who topped Pool B in what is being seen as a final before a final. Vihiga, who lost 4-2 in the opening match against CBE, went ahead to beat South Sudan’s Yei Join Stars 11-0 and concluded the pool matches with emphatic 8-0 against Zanzibar’s New Generation. In another semifinal CBE will take on Uganda champions Lady Doves. The winner of the competition will book an automatic slot for the CAF Champions League finals to be hosted in Egypt later this year. “We are aiming to win this competition. I was happy for the big win on Friday and it’s my prayer that going to the semi finals we shall prosper,” Said Nyamunyamu adding that, “Simba is a very tough side, I know but I have watched their last three matches and I am sure with a good game plan and mental strength as shown by my girls, we will beat them and qualify to the finals.” Nyamunyamu sentiments were echoed by his lethal striker Jentrix Shikangwa who scored a hat trick in the last match. Also Read: “I was very happy seeing myself scoring three goals, it really motivated me personally and the rest of the team. We are well prepared, the morale is high and we are going for nothing but a win. I am urging my teammates to utilize every chance which we will create and to also avoid aerial balls which made us suffer in our opening match.” On his part, Simba Queens manager Selemani Makanya has warned Vihiga Queens to expect a tough contest from them adding that the Kenyan side is made of good players, many of whom turn out for the national side. “We already know that Vihiga are tough side, composed of good and talented players such as Shikangwa, Engesha and the others. We respect them but going to the match I am sure we will carry the day. I am telling Nyamunyamu to expect a tough encounter from from,” said Makanya. The third-place playoff and final have been scheduled for Thursday, September 9, 2021, at the Nyayo National Stadium. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis