Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi has urged Kenyan legislators to introduce a bill in parliament to advocate for a drop in fuel taxes to reduce the cost of living. Speaker Muturi said he would approve the bill on Tuesday during the resumption of parliament sittings from recess. Speaker Muturi chastised politicians for addressing Kenyan concerns in public rallies rather than in Parliament, where they were elected to represent citizens, during a fundraising event at St Michael Catholic Church in Kiangungi in Runyenjes constituency. He has also criticised current political intolerance seen in the country on several occasions, blaming the country’s issues on a lack of leadership integrity. He was joined by Runyenjes MP Eric Muchangi Karemba, Nominated MP Cecily Mbarire, MCA Kyeni North Patrick Mukavi, Nominated MCA Terry Mbuchi, and a number of political aspirants running for various seats. Father Ezekiel Mugo, who presided over the mass, had earlier encouraged politicians to address the misery of ordinary Kenyans, citing the country’s difficult economic situation, which includes rising fuel prices. Also Read: Kenyans are facing more pain at the pump as petrol prices zoomed past the Ksh.130 mark per litre, an all-time high cost for the commodity. In its latest maximum pump price review, the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA)  raised the prices of super petrol by Ksh.7.58 per litre. This is while the cost of diesel and kerosene shoots by Ksh.7.94 and Ksh.12.97 per litre respectively from midnight on Wednesday. A litre of petrol in Kenya’s Capital Nairobi will now cost Ksh.134.72 rising from Ksh.127.14. The cost of diesel meanwhile spikes to Ksh.115.60 from Ksh.107.66 while kerosene will cost Ksh.110.82 from Ksh.97.85. EPRA has attributed the rising fuel prices higher costs for landed petroleum products with the cost of landed super petrol rising by 0.72 per cent, diesel by 4.81 per cent and kerosene by 0.96 per cent. The energy sector regulator however masks the true reasons behind the astronomical surge in fuel costs. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam