AFC Leopards assistant head coach Tom Juma is now appealing to the world governing body, FIFA, to be lenient and allow the 12-time champions to sign new talents ahead of the 2021/2022 season. Leopards were sanctioned by FIFA and cannot sign new players until they clear the debts of their former coach Andre Casa Mbungo, former players Soter Kayumba and goalkeeper Eric Bakame Ndayishimiye whom they jointly owe close to Sh12 million. Speaking at Thika Sub-county stadium after a 1-0 shock win against defending champions Tusker, Juma admitted that the team will struggle to compete in the top flight league against strong oppositions who have reenergized their squads. “We have already been hit by the ban; this is a top-tier league and the youth are not used to this level, we pray that FIFA will allow us to sign players like our rivals,” Juma appealed. Leopards are reeling from a thin squad after talisman Elvis Rupia, Collins Shichnje, Clyde Senaji, Hansel Ochieng,  and Benjamin Ochan, all left the club. Other are; John Oyemba, and Robinson Kamura, and the available youthful men may not deliver heaven for the club. Also Read: Notably, Senaji was in brewer’s shirt, but only lasted 30 minutes on the pitch as he was enduring an injury from the start, as head coach Robert Matano would reveal at full time. Despite the ban, Juma told Citizen Digital that they have already identified a handful of talents to add into the team should they be given a green light by the world football governing body. “The current team needs a boost in all disciplines: from the goalie to the leading line and given a chance, we already have our targets in all the positions,” he disclosed. A week before the kickoff of the 2021/2022 season, Juma had vowed to turn to their youth team, Ingwe Cabs, to fill up positions left by senior players who have moved on to other clubs. The Sunday win against the brewers puts Ingwe at level with Bandari, Gor Mahia, Sofapaka, Kariobangi Sharks, Homeboyz and Ulinzi Stars with three points each after the league opener. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam