Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala now says that the National Intelligence Service (NIS) has failed Kenya as far as the Laikipia skirmishes are concerned. According to the legislator, the government needs to look into the root cause of the matter instead of arresting politicians. “The NIS has failed us…We need to look for the root cause of the skirmishes in Laikipia…Sometimes arresting politicians is a decoy to move attention from the real issues,” Senator Malala said. The senator who was appearing on Citizen TV’s Day Break on Thursday said the arrests of politicians in connection to the unrest were a decoy and are akin to  sweeping dirt under the rug. He claimed that despite being among those arrested after the killings in Matungu in early 2021, he has never been in charged in court. “I was arrested over killings in Matungu but up to date, we have never been charged,” the senator added, appearing to question the arrest of Former Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel on charges of incitement to violence. Also Read: The senator said there are many different theories advanced as people try get to the bottom of the clashes. “There are those who say it is about 2022 politics, there are those who are saying its about the rich and the poor and there are those who are blaming it on the drought,” he added Meanwhile, Hundreds of families continue to flee their homes, terrorised by the banditry in the Laikipia Nature Conservancy and the surrounding areas. At least 10 people have so far been killed in the area and dozens others injured in the past two months. On Wednesday, Former Laikipia North Member of Parliament (MP) Mathew Lempurkel was  arrested over the ongoing banditry attacks at the Laikipia Nature Conservancy and the surrounding areas. Lempurkel was arrested on Wednesday morning at his home in Rongai, Kajiado County by detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. He was grilled at the DCI headquarters on Kiambu Road and is set to be arraigned at the Milimani Law Courts. According to Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya, the former Laikipia North MP is one of three suspects believed to be inciting the attacks in Laikipia County. It is not clear whether the MP will be charged today or detectives will seek more time to detain him. On Tuesday, bandits in Laikipia put on display their defiance to authority in the Ol Moran area, staging day time attacks in the volatile area as the Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya assessed the damage caused in previous attacks. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive