Law Society of Kenya (LSK) President Nelson Havi says a petition challenging the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC) will be filed next week. In a statement on Twitter, Havi said the petition has been informed by cries from parents, guardians and teachers. “The education system in Kenya should not be an expensive, inefficient and ineffective experiment with our children and their future as is our leadership,” Havi Tweeted on Wednesday. The curriculum according to its critics has proven more expensive than the 8-4-4 system, with parents and guardians required to dig deeper into their pockets for books and other requirements. Former Secretary General of the Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT), Wilson Sossion in late August denounced the Curriculum as a deceptive system that threatens to undo the country’s educational successes. Sossion criticised the CBC curriculum in an interview with Citizen TV, saying it was being implemented in an unprofessional manner. Also Read: He claimed that the 2-6-3-3 educational system, which was introduced in 2017 to replace the 8-4-4 system, did not follow all of the necessary protocols before being implemented. According to him, the new CBC educational system is more of an exploitative plan that has emptied parents’ accounts by pushing them to purchase useless learning materials. He went on to say that teachers are having trouble adapting the curriculum since they haven’t had enough training. Physical and health education, mathematics, English, Kiswahili or Kenya Sign Language, science and technology, social studies, home science, and agriculture are among the eight subjects taught in the new Competency-based Curriculum (CBC). Pupils will also have the option of choosing from Christian Religious Education (CRE), Islamic Religious Education (IRE), or Hindu Religious Education (HRE). Art and craft, music, the pastoral program of teaching, indigenous languages, and foreign languages such as German, French, and Arabic are among the other subjects. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive