As the debate over the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC) rages on, Education Cabinet Secretary Prof. George Magoha has told off those opposed to the new system of education. Prof. Magoha warned the Law Society of Kenya (LSK) to expect a serious duel in the lawsuit filed against CBC last week. The CS maintained that the new system of education is the best for the country, adding that it is here to stay. “Let me do my work, you do yours…tupeleke kortini, we’re going to meet you there…but I can assure you, as the full back, when I say mpira haipiti, haitapita. Why don’t you leave education for the educationists? The parents at home are the greatest teachers of all time,” he said on Monday. Prof. Magoha spoke as the National Parents Association (NPA) commended the government for introducing CBC, also promising to move to court to defend the program. NPA Chairman Nicholas Maiyo spoke when he addressed the press on Monday at KICD after a parental empowerment and engagement forum on CBC, coming amidst a flurry of criticism from Kenyans on social media in the recent weeks. Also Read: “We want our children to have the best education. We can go to great lengths and make enormous sacrifices to ensure our children achieve this objective. But we all know what good education is: good education is when learning increases a child’s creativity and helps them enjoy studying. At the end of it, learners should be knowledgeable, wise and productive citizens of the world,” said Mr. Maiyo. “They should possess necessary competency in their minds and hearts. They should demonstrate their genuine ability under all circumstances. Their grades and certificates should not be mere accreditation on a piece of paper but accurate statements of their competence in the particular areas in which they are examined. To this end, the NPA shall be forever grateful to the Government for introducing the Competency Based Curriculum.” He further added: “As you may be aware, a group of citizens have sued the Government seeking removal of the CBC. Without a doubt, we will join the case. My Council has directed our Chief Executive Officer to move with haste and ensure the case does not proceed without us.”  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam