A woman has filed a case in court seeking to have the body of a child she allegedly sired with prominent lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui exhumed. The woman, TabbyRose Wanja Wamwitha, has accused advocate Kinyanjui of  involving himself in a cult. “The applicant believes the 4th respondent practices and participates harmful religious practices known as freemanson,” reads court papers. She now wants the body of her infant daughter exhumed, an autosy be conducted by a public pathologist and that she be allowed to bury her on her piece of land or a neutral place. In the court documents, the woman claims there are strong reasons to believe that there was foul play in the death of her daughter. She says the girl died suddenly on October 14, 2017 at the MP Shah Hospital, adding that the child suffered from downsyndrome and heart complications prior to her death accusing the lawyer of never supporting the baby’s medical needs. Lawyer Kinyanjui, however, denies these allegations. In an affidavit, the woman says that the infant had a fever the day before her demise and despite her insisting on taking the child to the hospital, the lawyer refused. “The applicant forcefully took the infant to the hospital the next morning being the same day the deceased passed away,” she says. After the death of the child, the woman claims that she suggested that the baby be buried at Lang’ata Cemetery or on her land in Maai Mahiu after an autopsy had been done, in which both parties agreed. She, however, claims that, that did not happen, accusing lawyer Kinyanjui of changing the place of burial and having a secret autopsy conducted by a pathologist known to himself. She says that since the burial she has visited the graveyard once. While opposing the application, an aunt to the child and sister to the complainant has supported the lawyer saying that the body should not be exhumed. “ I oppose any order to exhume the remains of my deceased niece as sought in the suit herein and I am stunned that even such pleas were lodged,” reads the court documents. She says that her sister was never married to the lawyer. The aunt to the deceased girl maintains that as a family they were involved at every stage of the burial plans until the body was interred at the lawyer’s firm. “I have however kept in touch with the lawyer since they parted ways with my sister and I would be the first to know if indeed she has been blocked from attending my deceased nieces’s grave,” says the sister, terming the application as being made in gross bad faith and ought to be dismissed as lacking in justification and merit. “It is wrong to so casually seek to disturb the rest of the deceased infant on such baseless and unfounded allegations that are not backed by any iota of evidence and more or so found on wild speculations, “ says the aunt. Kinyanjui’s friend Geoffrey Maina Makome has also filed an affidavit opposing the application by the woman saying that Kinayanjui never married the woman saying that the orders seeking to have the body exhumed are in bad taste. Lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui has however dismissed the claims by Wamwitha, inisisting that he had nothing to do with the death of their daughter. He maintains that “he loves his deceased infant as strongly in death as he always did from the date of her birth” adding that the complaint by the deceased daughter’s monther is “callous, diabolical and solely intent on in-dignifying the deceased infant.” Kinyanjui says his relationship with the woman ended and collapsed on March 13, 2018. He insists that they were never married as has been alleged by the child’s mother. The court will rule on the matter on November 12. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam