There have often been whispers of powerful yet mysterious operatives operating within the shadows of Kenya’s political scene aptly named the ‘Deep State.’ The ‘Deep State’ in Kenya’s political circles is believed to have great influence on who takes up influential positions; they not only bankroll individuals they support but also allegedly make decisions that influence governance and development initiatives.They, basically, run the country. However, these whispers and allegations have never really been confirmed…well, until now. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia, a former Head of Public Service and Permanent Secretary for Provincial Administration and Internal Secretary in the retired president Mwai Kibaki government, may just have given the clearest indication yet of the existence of the ‘Deep State.’ Governor Kimemia has been long perceived as a powerful operative in the Kibaki government, having also served as Chairman of the Assumption of Office of the President Committee when Kibaki was handing over power to President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2013. The Nyandarua County boss spoke during an interview with Citizen TV on Tuesday, where he said a presidential candidate backed by the ‘Deep State’ more often than not always wins the elections. Also Read: “If you have two candidates at the rate of 50-50, and the Deep State backs one, you can be sure that one will win. The candidate must be credible and electable, that becomes very important if the Deep State are to support a candidate,” he said. Kimemia however also spoke of influence of the international community on the country’s leadership, saying a tag team between them and the Deep State is formidable. “We’re forgetting also the international angle, this country has a lot of interest from the international, and they also influence a lot. I can assure you, from where I sat, they influence a lot…in many many ways that I can’t discuss here. So if they combine with the Deep State, you can be sure your goose is cooked,” he stated. “Deep State also includes people in the villages , it goes up to the polling stations. It doesn’t necessarily mean rigging elections. But a popular candidate backed by the State, it would be foolhardy to assume that you can be able to defeat that candidate.” Deputy President William Ruto last year ruffled a few feathers when he came out to claim that the ‘Deep State’ plans to rig him out of the 2022 race. He however stated that he is ready for whatever obstacle the ‘Deep State’ would bring forth, saying no machinations of any kind against him will stop his march to State House. “Ati iko watu watatuibia kura hata mkipiga kura namna gani, kuna watu wamekaa mahali fulani wataamua, hawa watu tunawangojea, hiyo Deep State tunangojea, hiyo system tunangojea, watakuja na system sisi tunakuja na watu na mwenyezi Mungu,” the DP said in August 2020. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga later dismissed claims by the DP that there exists a ‘Deep State’ that is seeking to block his ascension to President in 2022. In a press briefing, Odinga said he holds no position in government and is therefore not aware of the existence of a so-called ‘Deep State’. “As you know, where I am I hold no position in the government of the Republic of Kenya. Kenya is led by the President whose name you know and his deputy whose name you also know. So if you are talking about the ‘Deep State’, who is there? It’s the president and his deputy,” said the ODM party leader. “Go and ask Mr Deputy President which Deep State are you talking about… we are not in government as ODM. So we don’t know about this Deep State.” Raila Odinga’s elder brother Oburu Odinga had previously implied that they were finally assured of winning the 2022 election since the so-called ‘System’ or ‘Deep State’ was now on their side. “Why have we not gone to State House when we have won the presidency before? It’s because there is something we have been missing. That thing is called system. And now we are with Uhuru Kenyatta who is holding the system,” said Oburu. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam