Decorated Malkia Strikers setter Jane Wacu has thrown light on her decision to take a one-year break from the national women’s volleyball team amid retirement claims. Wacu, who alongside former setter Janet Wanja command a combined experience of over three decades in the game, told Citizen Digital she was taking a sabbatical from Malkia Strikers in order ‘to pursue other personal commitments’. The 36-year-old former Tetu High School player, who missed the recently concluded African Nations Championships in Rwanda with a head injury however, said she would fully concentrate with club matters but did not rule out a return to Malkia Strikers in future. “I’ve involved myself fully with volleyball for more than 15 years and I’ve decided to take a break from Malkia Strikers to first handle my personal issues which I think is the right time. I’ve not retired from the national team and I will offer my services after a one-year period but that would depend on the coach’s decision,” said Wacu. The ever-green setter, who completed her two-year stint with Seychellois Anse Royale (ARSU) early this season, revealed that another deal is on verge of completion with a club from the same country. “I’m in discussion with another club in Seychelles and soon the deal will be announced but for the record, I will not be going back to Anse Royale. In fact the personal project which I’m planning to undertake is based in Seychelles,” she added. Also Read:  The Prisons Inspector has also had other professional stints in France but locally she turns out for the reigning Kenya Volleyball Federation National League women champions Kenya Prisons. She added that when the time comes to call time on her 15-year illustrious playing career she will take a stab at coaching among other things. “Once I’m done with playing volleyball I’m planning to start coaching and I’ll be readily available to help the young players especially in my position. I don’t want when I leave people will start seeing a gap, no, that’s not me. I’m not selfish. I want to help the upcoming setters to reach where I’m at and even high levels.” With Wacu out of the picture, for now, head coach Paul Bitok will embark on finding a perfect replacement for the stylish setter with Kenya Prisons Joy Lusenaka, Kenya Pipeline Esther Mutinda and KCB Women’s Volleyball Team Emmaculate Nekesa-all in fray. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam