Former Harambee Stars head coach Francis Kimanzi is not convinced that former Harambee Stars captain Victor Wanyama has retired from international football for good. The Wazito FC tactician thinks Wanyama has just taken a break and will be back soon. This comes two days after the CF Montreal midfielder announced his retirement, after being overlooked in the recent Harambee Stars matches, although he did not cite it as the reason for the move. “I don’t think he has actually retired from international matches. According to me he has just taken a break because of what has been surrounding him. I think he has just done this to have his mind relaxed and then he will return because we still need him,” Kimanzi said. According to Kimanzi, it’s too early for the former Tottenham Hotspur midfielder to retire since he still has a lot to give to the national team. “He is a great player who has been very important to our country. He is also a very good role model to the young players who are coming up. For our country and our football I think it’s too early for him to announce his retirement because he has to teach the young players from within the team,” Kimanzi underscored. Also Read: Wanyama, among other markers of his illustrious national team career, led Harambee Stars in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Egypt.  Former AFC Leopards captain Robinso Kamura hailed Wanyama as an astute leader, both on and off the pitch. “He has been a leader and will remain to be a leader because he has achieved so much that Kenyan players have not. He has played where many Kenyan players would love to be, which remains special to me. “He has retired from international football but there are memories that can’t be erased such as what he has done and it also gives us that urge to reach where he has reached,” Kamura said. Kamura, now a KCB defender, played with Wanyama in Stars team back in 2015 under the then head Coach Bobby Williamson. “I can say I was privileged to play with him for two years in the national team because my first call up came under Bobby Williamson who was assisted by Musa Otieno. We were with the likes of Olunga (Michael) in the U-23 squad which gave us the platform that eventually triggered our promotion to the senior team where I met and played with Wanyama,” narrated Kamura, underling how much they learnt from him. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) also indicated Wanyama’s move was unforeseen, saying he was still in their plans for the national team. The federation however accepted his decision, which signals the end of his services for Stars unless a major change of heart happens. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam