After qualifying for the inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League, Vihiga Queens have sent a plea to the Government to help them secure a better training ground as they embark on fresh preparations. Jentrix Shikangwa, whose stoppage time penalty lifted Vihiga Queens to a 2-1 victory over Ethiopia’s Commercial Bank in the final, made the request in the aftermath of her heroic show at Kasarani Stadium. Shikangwa said the Kidundu Stadium where they currently conduct their training is in bad state and being that they have qualified for the continental showpiece, they need a better field on which to prepare. “Caf Champions League is not an average tournament and that’s why we need to have a thorough training. I want to thank thanking our sponsors (Vihiga County) for the support they have accorded us so far but I am also kindly urging them to look for us a better field for training. “Our home Kidundu Stadium is in a very bad state hence we cant train well on it. We now need to train in quality stadiums of which if they will not match the ones we will meet in Cairo, but at least similar to. By doing so they will have really boosted our morale and mental strength,” she said. On his part, head coach Boniface Nyamunyamu hailed his charges for a well job done, saying the win was a results of his players implementing the changes they discussed after the first loss. Also Read: “When we played CBE in our first match, we realized our defence was weak, so I worked on it and I thank my players because they did exactly what I told them to do. I am also impressed by Shikangwa, she really played well as we had earlier agreed before the match that she was the one to take any penalty created. Going to the continental showpiece, we urge sponsors to chip in and boost the team financially. We need good training with good facilities. Players need to be motivated among other things. We shall meet as technical team and discuss about our next preparation plan.” Said Nyamunyamu. Shikangwa, later voted tournament MVP stepped up, her 20 year old shoulders carrying the weight of a nation. On top of winning the title and booking a ticket to the Champions League in Egypt, Vihiga were awarded Sh3 million, CBE walked away with Sh2 million while Ugandan Lady Doves who emerged third in the tournament after defeating Simba Queens 2-1 were awarded Sh1 million. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive