Leaders from Kirinyaga County among them Governor Anne Waiguru, Interior Principal Secretary Dr. Karanja Kibicho, Woman Representative Purity Ngirici and Narc-Kenya party leader Martha Karua held a meeting in Kutus town on Tuesday in preparation for Mashujaa Day celebrations set to be held in the county. Despite their political differences the leaders came together to discuss among other issues unity and development of the region. Also at the meeting was the region’s business community. Dr. Kibicho said the meeting brought together seating and former elected leaders where they were updated on development that has been undertaken by the national government. “We have also drawn a wish-list as the president will be coming here. We have agreed as Kirinyaga people we shall have the healthiest competition. All aspiring, former and sitting leaders are here. But most importantly is the commitment of all leaders to uphold peace during this period before Mashujaa Day and even after,” said Kibicho. On her part Governor Waiguru said issues affecting Kirinyaga residents were the main agenda adding: “We convened here mostly to discuss Kirinyaga issues but also the biggest concern right now is the issue of Mashujaa and the other issue of concern here are matter of security concern.” “This meeting was about the development of Kirinyaga and also unity in the sense that all leaders have come together something we should be doing even when we are not having president,” said Karua. Also Read: Woman Representative Ngirici urged the leaders from the region to put interests of the county first despite their differences. Waiguru, Karua and Ngirici are set to contest for the Kirinyaga Governor seat in 2022. Though he has ruled out joining the gubernatorial race, Kibicho who also hails from the county, has been frequenting the area inspecting state projects and overseeing the implementation of various community projects. Other elected leaders at the meeting led by Kirinyaga Senator Charles Kibiru, MCAs led by Majority leader who is also Kerugoya Ward MCA James Kamau Murango agreed to tame their political camps. Video Of The Day: Iconic city hotels staring at bleak future