Businessman Jimi Wanjigi has reiterated his call for fair and transparent elections and nominations in the ODM Party under which he is seeking to contest for President in 2022. In a letter sent to ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna on Thursday, Wanjigi protested the manner in which the party is conducting elections for party officials in the grassroots. The businessman claims the polls, in some areas, are being concuted “in undercover fashion” contrary to the party’s constitution. “You (Sifuna) confirmed that party elections are now ongoing and said that a team from your office had just completed the exercise in the Upper Eastern counties of Embu, Meru and Tharaka Nithi and that this will continue. My supporters, the length and breadth of the party that I have spoken to are shocked that these elections have been conducted in direct violation of the party laws that govern elections,” reads the statement. “The party’s Nomination Rule 7 clearly states that the National Elections Board shall issue a notice of not less than Twenty-One (21) days with respect to all Party elections due and it shall publish such notice in at least one daily newspaper with national circulation and one announcement vide the electronic media.” He added: “When the SG confirms that elections of officials has taken place in various branches and counties across the nation, where were these advertised? Why are they being conducted in undercover fashion and to whose gain? This is not an underground movement; it is the Orange Democratic Movement.” Also Read: Wanjigi notes that the party officials who are currently being elected will be part of the National Delegates Conference that will elect national officials and the presidential ticketholder and is therefore demanding for transparency. The businessman wants the ODM Secretary General to provide a certified list of Party Delegates who are to attend the National Delegates Convention to nominate the Party’s Presidential Candidate ahead of the 2022 national General Elections. He further wants confirmation of the timelines to the Delegates Conference to nominate the party’s flagbearer.Wanjigi is further seeking information of whether the Party intends to have any activities, including televised Party Presidential debates and, if so, when these may be had. Lastly he wants to be provided with the timing and mechanism for party primaries at the ward, constituency, and county levels in order to allow members to interrogate the leadership qualities and political intent of candidates across the board. This is the second time Wanjigi is demanding for free and transaparent nominations in the ODM Party. Last month, speaking during an event at the ODM headquarters, Wanjigi called on the party to adopt an open communication policy with all aspirants. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive