Back-to-back1500m Olympic Champion Faith Kipyegon is the LG Sport’s Personality for the month of August. The mother-of-one successfully defended her 1500m gold medal at the Tokyo 2020 Games in a new Olympic record of 3:53.11, beating Great Britain’s Laura Muir and Dutch star Sifan Hassan. Kipyegon, who was awarded by the LG Electronics Managing Director, Sa Nyoung Kim on Tuesday morning at her Global Sports Communication Training Camp in Kaptagat said the award will motivate her to more success ahead of next season. “I am so surprised about this award. It has never happened before. Being the off season, Coach Patrick Sang called me and said that there is an urgent meeting. Little did I know I was to receive this award. It is an inspiration for me and my teammates at the camp,” Kipyegon said. She went home with a state-of-the-art LG Artificial Intelligence washing machine worth Sh. 92,000 and a glittering trophy engraved with her name. Kim appreciated the partnership, saying that the electronic firm is committed to developing sports in the country. Also Read: “I’m humbled to be at such a humble camp which has so many championships. LG and SJAK will continue working together to support and motivate sports personalities achieve their dreams,” LG boss Sa Nyoung Kim said. On his part, Valentijn Trouw, a senior manager at the Global Sports Communication Camp welcomed the token presented to the inform Kipyegon. “We are pleased as a team to have a fifth athlete awarded. As Global Sports Communication we work as a team to ensure that we not only develop good athletes but a well-rounded person.” Kipyegon was voted the best ahead of the men’s marathon world record holder Eliud Kipchoge, women’s Peres Jepchirchir who both won gold in Tokyo Olympics as well as 800m gold medalist Emmanuel Korir. Also in the nominees were World Under-20 Walk champion Heristone Wanyonyi, 100m sensational Ferdinand Omanyala and World Under-20 800m champion Emmanuel Wanyonyi. She also becomes the fourth female athlete in 2021 to lay hands on the coveted award, previously won by the likes of Kipchoge, Geoffrey Kamworor, Kenya sevens star Jacob Ojee and 800m Commonwealth champion Wycliffe Kinyamal among others. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam