Royal Media Services Chairman Dr. SK Macharia says the gains that were envisaged in the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga should not be allowed to go to waste. According to Dr. Macharia, the handshake process should continue even after President Kenyatta’s term comes to an end in 2022. “Without President Uhuru Kenyatta there would be no handshake. We salute him for that. We ask him to leave that handshake to good hands so that it can continue,” said Dr. Macharia. He was speaking on Tuesday during a meeting of the Mt. Kenya Foundation and Mr. Odinga in Nairobi. Dr. Macharia went ahead to indicate that Mr. Odinga is a pair of safe hands for the country. “We believe President Uhuru Kenyatta will leave this country in good hands, the hand he went to look for to shake hands.” Also Read: The Royal Media Services Chairman, who has been an ardent supporter of the handshake, reiterated that corruption should be fought relentlessly for economic growth and transformation to be realised in the country. Dr. Macharia recounted his times as a public servant when he worked in President Jomo Kenyatta’s government, saying some of the ills like corruption were not profound as seen in the present day. “The problems we have today, we did not have them during President Jomo Kenyatta’s time. We worked very hard. We still worked 8 hours from Monday to Friday and until midday on Saturday’s. We would never take a single sent of government money,” he stated. He added: “We only worked for the government to make money or provide services for people and then those taxes would help businesses make money.” Dr. SK Macharia worked in President Jomo Kenyatta’s government in the Lands Ministry. He was among the young educated Kenyans who were handpicked from the United States of America in 1968 to return home and work the then government. Those who say Kenyatta stole land should come and I will take them to the archives… Anyone who got land from the British has valid documents with my signature and that of the late Gikonyo,” he stated.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam