Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier now says the club’s 2 Million Dollar fundraiser plan flopped after a section of club fans, who initially embraced the initiative, turned and campaigned against it. The chairman now says they will have to turn to well-wishers and other forms of fundraisers to prepare for the CAF Confederations Cup beginning mid next month. “We initiated a promising initiative which was embraced by our fans and all stakeholders. But suddenly there arose a wave of opposition from a section of our fans and campaigned against the initiative. As we speak, it is no more,”  explained Rachier. Speaking to Citizen Digital, the long-serving chairman said they are in the process of identifying other means of raising money ahead of the CAF Confederations Cup assignment commencing mid- next month. Rachier who also revealed the withdrawal of a potential sponsor who was in talks with them after they finished a poor eight last season. “We were in talks with a firm that was to negotiate for sponsorship on our behalf, but after the poor finish in the league last season, the organization went quiet. As of now, we only have only one sponsor (a betting firm), which may not be enough to steer us through the assignments ahead of us.” Also Read: The betting firm is on record announcing clipping off part of the sponsorship occasioned by hard economic times at the emergence of Covid-19 pandemic. He however says they will continue signing players to bolster their current squad despite the financial crisis. “We still have time to bolster all the weak areas in our squad. The transfer window closes next month and therefore no cause for alarm. The coach will advise on what can be good for the team,” added Rachier. Despite finishing below expectations last season, the record league champions will still fly the Kenyan flag at the CAF Confederations Cup with their first assignment away in Khartoum to Al-Ahly of Sudan. The match will take place between October 15 and 16 with the return leg in Nairobi a week later. So far they have signed seven players including striker Boniface Omondi who is returning to Gor after spending a season at stint at Wazito FC. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam