With FC Talanta already declared National Super League (NSL) champions, all eyes will be on Vihiga Bullets and Kenya Police who are jostling for the remaining automatic FKF-PL berth in what is expected to be a riveting end to the 2020/21 NSL season on Sunday. Both sides are level on 61 points but Bullets have a superior goal difference and a win will get them over the line. Bullets assistant coach Milton Kidiga is positive his troops have the legs to secure them the all-important scalp against Kibera Blacks at Bukhungu Stadium as they eye an automatic promotion to the Football Kenya Federation Premier League next season. Their scintillating form has seen them amass an enviable ten points from a possible twelve in their past four matches, rising above Kenya Police to number two on the NSL log and are now a victory away from earning their first promotion to the top tier league. Kidiga who underlines resilience as a key factor to their unprecedented run is confident his charges will overcome fatigue to accomplish the club’s biggest achievement since inception. “Am happy with the way the boys have responded amid a jam-packed fixture schedule. Also Read: “There were moments we felt they could crumble but they held on to win our last three games. “We understand that Sunday is an important day in our history and we are ready to deliver the goods to our fans.” Their rivals Kenya Police will go into the final days hoping results go their way but head coach John “Bobby” Ogolla is taking nothing for chance in his preparation for their trip to face Migori Youth at the Awendo Green Stadium on Sunday. Ogolla whose side trail Bullets courtesy of goal difference says they will aim to win their match and hope results go their way. “Bullets have done an incredible job of sustaining a serious challenge towards the tail end of the season and are currently ahead of us thanks to goal difference. “We are doing our homework and we will aim to win our match against Migori Youth to stand a chance of earning the remaining automatic promotion slot.” NSL Round 37 Fixtures Fortune Sacco v Nairobi Stima Modern Coast Rangers v Soy United Vihiga Bullets v Kibera Black Stars APS Bomet v Silibwet Leons Coast Stima v Shabana Kisumu All Stars v MCF FC Talanta v Gusii FC Migori Youth v Kenya Police Mwatate United v Murang’a Seal Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis