The second edition of Kip Keino Classic slated for September 18 in Kasarani Stadium has received a shot in the arm after Absa Kenya on Monday announced a Sh20 million sponsorship for the competition during the official launch of the event presided over by Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed at a city hotel. Kenya will be hosting the event for a second consecutive year with the competition being the 12th and final leg of the 2021 Continental Tour Gold series. Athletics Kenya President Jackson Tuwei said the preparations are complete and that some 265 athletes have already registered in the three categories of the event; national, discretionary and core. “We are grateful that the government has supported us fully in the preparation of this event and now we have Absa coming in which will make it even bigger. Some 185 athletes have been invited for the discretionary and core events and 80 athletes have been confirmed for the national events,” said Tuwei. Amina who addressed the congregation via zoom hailed the organisers for the progress made in preparation as she affirmed government’s support for the event. “This event is a big one for us. As we host the second edition on Saturday and the third edition next year, we hope we will now get the rights to host the Diamond League series. As a ministry we are now planning for the next set of events we will be hosting,” said Amina. Also Read: Also in attendance at the launch was Absa Kenya CEO Jeremy Awori who said they are keen to support and nurture athletics talent in the country. “As a business that has called Kenya home for more than a century, we have a keen interest to continue supporting Athletics, not just because it is a great sport that shines the global spotlight on our country…but because it will also provide us an opportunity to work with thousands of exceptionally talented young Kenyans and play a role in turning their potential into successful careers,” he said. Meet director Barnaba Korir said the amount will enable organisers to deliver a successful event that has already attracted global stars. “We welcome Absa for coming on board and we hope they will continue supporting us in other events. The amount will complement what we have received from the government and which is a timely boost,” said Korir. Olympic champions Soufiane El Bakkali of Morocco, Peruth Chemutai of Uganda and Kenya’s Faith Kipyegon have been confirmed for the event. Others are sprints sensations led by two-time world 100m champion Justin Gatlin and the fastest man this year Trayvon Bromell, both of the USA. Korir said strict Covid-19 measures have been put in place ahead of the event on Saturday. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive