Court of Appeal judge Sankale Ole  Kantai now intends to move to court seeking to bar the Inspector General of Police, the Director of Criminal Investigation (DCI) or any of their agents from arresting him in connection with the gruesome murder of businesman Tob Cohen. In an application through his lawyer, the judge has accused the IG and DCI of going rogue and acting in contravention with the decision of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). This comes following an explosive testimony of a senior DCI officer which paints a suspicious association between justice Sankale and Sarah Wairimu Cohen, the wife to the deceased businessman. In an application through lawyer Walter Wanyama, the judge questions the motive of the testimony of the DCI saying: “What is more intriguing and probably a manifestation of an institution whose leaders have gone rogue, the 2nd respondent wants to arrest the petitioner on matters that the DPP has already considered and closed.” Ole Sankale goes ahead to state that the evidence presented by the DCI officer John Gachomo was based on matters the DPP had already issued a decision on. “The petitioner has the legitimate expectation that he won’t be arrested and harassed again by the 2nd respondent,” submits the judge. Also Read: Sankale had in August also protested his impending arrest saying his previous engagement with Sarah Cohen where through his private practice transacted business on her behalf should not be used against him. This in reference to telephone conversations and chats recovered by the investigating officers who have since linked him to the murder of the businessman. The judge is now seeking prayers that pending the hearing and determination of the application, that a temporary injunction be issued  barring his arrest or prosecution on matters from the murder probe of Tob Cohen. John Gachomo, a senior assistant inspector general of police, based at the DCI has testified that the judge  had actively participated in the planning and cover up of the murder of Tob Cohen. The officer alleges that the judge convened several meetings with Sarah Wairimu to plan to murder Cohen at different places, location and dates. In court documents seen by Citizen TV, the office of the DCI is blaming the DPP’s agents and officers of illegally and unconstitutionally trying to terminate investigation and further charging the judge. The revelations now bound to further strain the frosty relationship between the DCI and DPP who have often clashed over the handling of cases. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam