A woman in Kericho has courted trouble with the law after detectives discovered that she falsely accused her area chief of forcing himself on her, after her husband discovered that the two have been having a clandestine sexual affair since August. According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) a serious case was lodged at Londiani police station on Tuesday afternoon. “The woman from Kimasian location who was accompanied by her husband alleged that the area chief had stormed her homestead earlier in the day and ordered her out of the house,” the police report seen by Citizen Digital explains. The woman alleged that when she obliged, the chief then forced her into a nearby maize plantation where he raped her repeatedly. “Detectives launched immediate investigations into the serious allegations against the local administrator who had since been detained,”  the detectives said. Investigations into the matter, however, found that the woman and the chief had been having an affair, which spiraled out of control after the woman’s husband stumbled onto text messages between them. Also Read: “The Londiani based sleuths discovered that Mercy and the Chief had indeed been in a relationship and for a period of time, they had been exchanging missives laced with sweet nothings,” the report says “On the day the chief is alleged to have forced himself on Mercy,the two were in constant communication and had agreed to meet at their usual place,” Detectives also shared several lacy messages that the two had exchanged on the day of the alleged assault. “Let’s meet hapo mahindi yenu,” One of the messages sent by the chief last Sunday reads.  He would follow up on the offer with a different message on Tuesday:  “nimekuwekea kitu tupatane I give you..” Messages and transactions in favor of the woman dating back to August were also revealed during the investigation. “In order to get back at the chief, Mercy was compelled to file a trumped-up report against him, in a case that has attracted a lot of interest in Cheptagulgei village,” the police report added. Officers also found inconsistencies in the woman’s story after visiting the claimed scene of the incident. “The investigators also retrieved Mpesa transactions detailing how the woman had been receiving money from the chief after every illicit encounter the had, since August,” the report adds. The husband is also said to have attempted to lure the chief into meeting the woman again in order to trap him before the police report was filed. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam