Ahead of the CAF Women’s Champions League set for tomorrow in Cairo, Egypt, CECAFA Zone representatives Vihiga Queens are hopeful the support they have been receiving from stakeholders since qualifying will go a long way in enhancing their preparations. This is according to assistant coach Boniface NyamuNyamuh, whose remarks follow the Sh.1M token handed to them by the Vihiga County Governor Wilber Otichilo on Saturday. The tournament is set for November 5-19, and Vihiga are already gearing up for the inaugural continental women club championship. “We are happy as a team for the token and this will motivate the girls a lot as we continue with our preparations. The Governor was so happy for our progress and he promised to add donate another Sh.3 million if we perform well in Cairo. “This is enough motivation for because the team will be fighting to get the cash, besides the glory that comes with winning titles,” said NyamuhNyamuh. The teams’ funding could be increased by a 100 percent if the bid to increase the County Sports kitty to 60 million from 30 million is achieved, according to the Otichilo. Also Read: Queens Captain Enez Mango is optimistic of an outstanding performance in Egypt should the County keep all the promises made so far. “I want to thank the County Government for the support so far. As players we are well motivated and eager to represent our county in the CAF Champions League. However, there is more that can be done to ensure we are at the best level as we go to Egypt,” she noted. Meanwhile, NyamuNyamuh is optimistic of defeating Ulinzi Starlets in the October 2, 2021 in the FKF Women’s Cup final. “We are Vihiga Queens, we believe in ourselves and I am sure come October 2, we shall defeat Ulinzi with a big margin. We are well prepared and the morale is very high in the team. Vihiga will be using the competition as part of their preparations ahead of the inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League to be staged in Cairo, from November 5-19, 2021 and coach NyamuNyamuh has said they are on the verge of acquiring the services of Maureen Kinavudori from KCU Uganda. “As a part of bolstering our squad, we already have Maureen in our team who arrived recently from her Ugandan side UCU Lady Cardinals. We haven’t signed her yet, but she will have to train with the team so that we can assess his progress for a possible signing. “We have other three players, two of them being foreigners whom are finalizing talks with the management and soon they will join the rest of the team. Most of the players whom we are approaching put money ahead and that’s something which has delayed the signings.” Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam