In the interview pen after the Russian Grand Prix, Lewis Hamilton and Lando Norris held their own personal post mortem into how, in a chaotic final few laps, a maiden Formula 1 victory for Norris had turned into a record-extending 100th for Hamilton. “You didn’t want to come in?” Hamilton asked Norris, of the McLaren driver’s decision not to pit for treaded intermediate tyres as they battled for the lead, just as a late-race rain shower turned slowly into a deluge. “Me neither. I was like, ‘He’s right there!'” “Until then,” Norris said, “it was dry enough for slicks. What I got told was the rain was going to stay like that. Apparently what you got told was different.” “Yeah,” Hamilton said. “My team was great today. But I ignored the first call.” In those few words, the two drivers pretty much summed up how the race turned on its head. Because McLaren did not over-rule their driver and call him in for tyres, Norris lost a victory that for so long had seemed his for the taking after a superb performance all weekend. Also Read: And because Mercedes did, Hamilton left Russia on Sunday night back in the most tenuous of championship leads over rival Max Verstappen of Red Bull, who also read the conditions right. How the race was won and lost It was an agonising outcome for Norris and McLaren after the 21-year-old took a brilliant maiden pole position in the wet on Saturday and then driving an accomplished race. He lost the lead at the start to Ferrari’s Carlos Sainz, but was back ahead within 13 laps and then controlled the race expertly from the front while Hamilton, always likely to be his main rival, was held back in traffic. It took quite a while before Hamilton was finally up into a firm second place behind Norris. But with 23 laps to go, it was game on. Hamilton was eight seconds behind Norris in clear air and in a much faster car. The question was not whether the Mercedes would catch the McLaren, but whether Hamilton would be able to pass it when he did. After another 10 laps, Hamilton was within two seconds of Norris, but further progress was proving difficult. Had it stayed dry, the combination of the turbulent air behind the McLaren and the orange car’s prodigious straight-line speed would likely have secured Norris the success. But then the rain started to come down. Very lightly at first and only over a couple of corners. But the more the laps ticked by, the more the rain came, and into the final stages there were some big calls to make. With six laps to go, Mercedes called in Hamilton’s team-mate Valtteri Bottas for treaded intermediate tyres. That call was marginal – it was not clear at that point which way the weather was going to go. But with Bottas out of the points at that stage after a lacklustre race, they had nothing to lose. Within 30 seconds, though, Mercedes had enough information to make the decision on Hamilton a no-brainer. They could see on the weather radar available to all teams, that heavier rain was definitely coming and they called for Hamilton to pit on the lap after Bottas. Hamilton refused, while Verstappen, then stuck in seventh place, did come in. On the next lap, Mercedes called Hamilton again. This time he followed orders and the call won him the race. Hamilton pitted with four laps to go and initially he thought it was a mistake. “I only had three laps to catch up 24 seconds,” he said. “So it was like ‘no way’.” At the end of the next lap, he was still 15 seconds behind Norris. But so bad by now was the rain, and so unsuited to the conditions were Norris’ slick tyres, that Hamilton was through and gone just five corners later. Norris finally pitted with two laps to go. A win had become a seventh place. BBC Online Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam