Senegal rallied from a goal deficit to beat hosts Kenya 3-1 in the opening Group A match of the Africa Deaflympics Ball Games Qualifiers which kicked off at the Moi International Sports Centre Kasarani on Saturday. The visitors had their campaign effectively sewn up when Kenyans ran out of gas in the latter stages of the match. Kenyan players oozed confidence from the shrill of the first whistle and took the lead in the 20thminute when indefatigable midfielder Bashir Yahye looped past Senegal keeper Vitalis Sindoyi outside the box. Senegal dominated the match and could have gone ahead in the 8th minute but Ndao Assane’s close-range shot was ruled offside by Iranian referee Ashkhan Khorshidi. After the goal both teams executed more attacks with the host team forcing two quick corners on the left flank. But the supply from midfield for kenyans was wanting. The visitors made some scintillating buildups from midfield and equalized in the 27th minute courtesy of Seck Harona left shot past Kenya’s keeper Thor Mwai. Also Read: Senegal took the lead in the 45th minute with Diop Daouda penalty after Seck Harona was fouled by Eugene Nyasasi in the area. Kenyan players made some technical errors in their midfield where they failed to coordinate well in the first half. The visitors were solid in attack and midfield and led 2-1 at the breather. In the second half, Senegal continued to pile more pressure on the Kenyan territory as Harona tapped home in the 61st minute to stretch their lead to 3-1. Kilonzo Kennedy had a chance of handing Kenya its second goal but his left foot free kick hit the post in the 67th minute. The home team was reduced to 10 men after Gasper Asituha was sent off in the 80th minute for fouling a Senegalese player Wagne Ndiaga. The African Deflympics qualifiers are being used as a yardstick to select teams for the 2022 Olympics in Brazil. Kenya and Senegal are in Group A alongsdie Msli.  LINE UPS KENYA STARTING XI: 1.Thor Mwai, 3. Eugene Nyasasi, 16. Titus Chepkalum, 22. Joseph Munya, 13. Chrisantus Agenge, 12. Muinde Stephen, 10. Bashir Yahte, 15. Gasper Asituha, 11. Philip Kirui, 7. Kennedy Kiptoo, 8. Kennedy Kilonzo Substitutes: 18.Vitalis Sindoyi, 9. Kevin Nyagi, 6. Victor Otieno, 23. Edwin Masai, 20. Dominic Ruto, 2. Patrick Mungue, 4. Isaac Shindu, 14. Edwin Mboya, 19. Ismail Aden  SENEGAL STARTING XI: 1.Diaw Mohammadou, 6. Tall Issa, 4. Marro Khadim, 21. Demba Toure, 15. Ndiaye Papa Massamba, 2. Niand Papa Ousmane, 11. Sow Seydina, 10. Seck Harona, 20. Ndao Assane, 7. Mendy Laurent, 9. Wagne Ndigaga ubstitutes: 1.Tine Laba, 16. Sarr Alassane, 4. Diop Daouda, 19. Seye Mouhamed, 8. S. Abdallah, 12. Sally Thiony, 18. Seck Ousmane Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive