Vihiga Queens assistant coach Boniface Nyamunyamu has said the exit of the immediate former coach Alex Alumira affected the team psychologically and has contributed to their slow start at the CAF Women Champions League cum CECAFA Qualifiers in Nairobi. Former Kenya Women Premier League champions Vihiga suffered a 4-2 defeat in their tournament opening match against Ethiopia’s Commercial Bank but Nyamunyamu is optimistic they can bounce back when they face Yei Joint Stars of South Sudan at Kasarani on Wednesday. Assessing the loss against Commercial Bank, Nyamunyamu told Citizen Digital that Alumira’s exit had been a factor. Alumira tendered his resignation just over a week ago after landing a lucrative deal with Tanzania’s Tiger Queens Sports Academy. “I just want to tell Kenyans that mistakes happen in football and that they should stay calm and give us the chance to rectify our mistakes. I can say CBE was a very tough side and deserved their win. Secondly you all know about the departure of our former head coach Alumira, it really caught us unaware and also affected my players. “Before Alumira left, the team had prepared well for the Cecafa tournament and since Sunday we have been working on our mistakes and I am sure come Wednesday we shall defeat Jei Join Stars,” Nyamunyamu said. The first match on Wednesday will see Ethiopian side CBE tackling Zanzibar side New Generations from 1pm. Also Read: On Tuesday, Burundi’s PVP edged Djibouti’s FAD FC 2-1 at the MISC Kasarani where later on in the same field, Lady Doves was held by Simba Queens to a goalless draw.  CAF WOMEN’S CHAMPIONS LEAGUE RESULTS Saturday August 28, 2021 Match 1: Lady Doves 5 – 0 FAD FC (Nyayo Stadium, 1 pm) Match 2: PVP FC 1 – 4 Simba Queens (Nyayo Stadium, 4 pm) Sunday August 29, 2021 Match 3: Yei Join Stars 2-1 New Generations (Nyayo Stadium, 1 pm) Match 4: CBE 4-2 Vihiga Queens ( Nyayo Stadium, 4 pm) Tuesday, August 31, 2021 Match 6: PVP 2-1 FAD (MISC Kasarani, 1 pm) Match 5: Lady Doves 0-0 Simba Queens (MISC Kasarani, 4 pm) Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis