Barely over a fortnight after appointment to lead Harambee Stars in the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers, coach Engin Firat on Wednesday named his 34-man squad ahead of grouped E double header against Mali. The coach, who has never coached in Africa before, is handling totally unfamiliar faces ahead of the Morocco trip, thus a litmus test for him to choose the best for the West African powerhouses clash. However, former head coach Francis Kimanzi says Firat can still get it right courtesy of the advanced tools of scouting, and the information he gathers from his assistants who have been in the team before. “In such a scenario you consult with you assistant coaches and also get statistics about players from Wyscout, especially the abroad based ones. Like for him (Firat) he has not worked directly with the players so he will has to rely heavily on the members of the technical bench who have been there. However, he has the last decision to make. He can still get the best although knowing a name and the club a player turns out for is never enough,” noted Kimanzi, who left the role October 2020 when recently sacked Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee was hired.  Ovella Ochieng (centre) celebrates his goal during the 2018 CECAFA Senior Challenge at the Machakos Stadium. Also Read: Kimanzi also finds no problem with Firat calling up some of the players who have recently been out of competitive leagues for a significant period. Such is former Kariobangi Sharks winger Ovella Ochieng, who has also been outside the national team since the 2019 African Cup of Nations (AFCON). The talented Marumo Gallants player struggled to impress majorly because of a nagging injury at Vasalunds IF of Sweden, and retuned back after running down his contract. Prior to his recent move to the South African side, he had been out of competitive football  for over a year. Until August 2021, he was out of competitive league before he was signed by Marumo, coached by former Harambee Stars coach Sebastian Migne. “You also underline the word provisional squad, so whether you are attached or not it doesn’t matter because a new coach would want to see all the players he is interested in based on the information he gathers. A player could be unattached and still impress the coach, you never know. Sometimes you may find such players are have the potential but are not ready, so you advise them accordingly,” elucidated the experienced coach. Firat’s predecessor Mulee also had under three weeks to prepare for his first duty against Comoros in the botched 2022 AFCON qualifiers, after taking over from Kimanzi but had the advantage of knowing the players being a local coach. In addition, Firat has no luxury of time as he is on a two-month contract, thus every match matters for him if indeed the extension of his tenure will be based on the four remaining World Cup qualifiers.  Kariobagi Sharks striker Sydney Lokale controls the ball in past match  for Harambee Stars. He has been recalled back into the team after a long absence. During his unveiling, the former Moldova coach said he came accepted the offer because he “believed Kenya can qualify for the World Cup,” a task he has embarked on with the choice of the 34 men. With Mali still barred to play at home for lack of a standard stadium, Firat will face his baptism of fire on October 7 in Agadir, Morocco where Kenya will play their third qualifying match before hosting the Mohammed Magassouba-coached side three days later in Nairobi. Goalkeepers Ian Otieno (Zesco, Zambia), Faruk Shikhalo (KMC, Tanzania), James Saruni (Ulinzi Stars), Brian Bwire (Tusker) Defenders Joseph Stanley Okumu (KAA Gent, Belgium), Joash Onyango (Simba, Tanzania), David Odhiambo (Napsa, Zambia), Samuel Olwande (Kariobangi Sharks), Johnstone Omurwa (Wazito), Eugene Asike (Tusker), Frank Odhiambo (Gor Mahia), Daniel Sakari (Tusker), David Owino (KCB), Abud Omar (AEL Larisa, Greece), Eric Ouma (AIK, Sweden), Bolton Omwenga (Kagera Sugar, Tanzania. Midfielders Richard Odada (Red Star Belgrade, Serbia), Lawrence Juma (Sofapaka), Patila Omoto (Kariobangi Sharks), Ismael Gonzalez (Real Murcia, Spain), Kenneth Muguna (Azam, Tanzania), Duke Abuya (Nkana, Zambia), Keagan Ndemi (Bandari), Boniface Muchiri (Tusker), Regean Otieno (KCB), Erick Zakayo (Tusker), Ovella Ochieng (Marumo Gallants, South Africa), Philip Mayaka (Colorado Rapids, USA), Musa Masika (Wazito), Abdallah Hassan (Bandari) Forwards Michael Olunga (Al-Duhail, Qatar), Henry Meja (Tusker, Kenya), Sydney Lokale (Kariobangi Sharks), Erick Kapaito (Kariobangi Sharks) Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam