Kenya men’s deaf football team lost 4-2 to Mali in Africa Deaflympic Ball Games Qualifiers at the Nyayo National Stadium on Wednesday. This was Kenya’s second loss after Saturday’s 3-1 defeat to Senegal at Kasarani. The West Africans dominated both the physical and technical facets of the game with their keeper Diamane Camara denying the home team what appeared to be clear chances. It was not business as usual for the home team Mamadou Coulibally notched home a close range shot in the first minute. Mali extended their lead in the 37th minute when striker Nousa Keita Dida headed home a cross from Coulibally. The Group A match saw the hosts trail 2-0 at the breather. Kenyans piled immense pressure in the second half forcing two quick penalties converted by midfielder Bashir Yahye. Also Read: The first penalty came in the 47th minute when Kennedy Kiptoo was brought down in the area. Yahye was fouled in the box in the 56th and made it 2-2 from the spot kick. The two goals appeared to re-energize the home side as they continued to fight. But this was short lived when the marauding Malians camped on the Kenyan half. The West Africans were back in the lead in the 71st when Seydou Cillouma tapped home from close range to make it 3-2. Mamadou Coulibally delivered his second goal in the 76th minute with a shot past Kenyan keeper Thor Mwai. Kenyan Coach Ben Bella Omukuba blamed the defeat on poor marking, inexperience, and lack of concentration. “We tried our best but poor marking and bad techniques made the difference. We had speed on attack but missed many chances,” Omukuba said. This was Kenya’s second straight loss after their 1-3 defeat to Senegal. Kenya’s freekick specialist Kennedy Kiptoo and Yahye were among the outstanding players in the Kenyan outfit which struggled to cope with the West Africans’ stamina. Kiptoo hit the woodwork in the 50th minute after he had beat the Malian Keeper. “We created so many chances and could convert them into goals. But that’s football. The boys are young and have a future,” Omukuba said. Line ups Mali: 1. Diamane Camara, 3. Aboubacokay Cisse, 4. Boumala Coulibaly, 2. Mohamadou Ba, 5. Yahia Kounde, 12. Dialiba D., 7. Seydou Cillouma, 8. Mamadou Traore, 11. Mamadou Coulibally, 9. Noussa Dida Keita, 13. Yalouba Dioufaga Reserves :15 Moussa Ballo 14. Soleymane Kante, 6. Seyba L. Kante , 16. Mamadou Toure Kenya: 1.Thor Mwai, 3. Eugene Ngasasi, 22. Joseph Munyua, 21. Boaz Rambo. 12. Muinde Stephen, 16. Titus Kipkales, 8. Kilonzo Kilonzo, 7. Kennedy Kiptoo, 10. Bashir Yahye, 11. Philip Kirui, Substitutes 18.Vitalis Sindoyi, 9. Kevin Nyagi, 6. Victor Otieno, 23. Edwin Masai, 20. Dominic Ruto, 2. Patrick Mungue, 4. Isaac Shindu, 14. Edwin Mboya, 19. Ismail Aden Video Of The Day: Iconic city hotels staring at bleak future