Harambee Stars and Amavubi Wasps settled for a 1-1 draw in their second match of the 2022 World qualifiers, played on Sunday evening in Kigali, Rwanda. Stars captain Michael Olunga netted for the visitors before Abdul Rwatubyaye levelled, in the 9th and 21st minutes respectively in a quite exciting duel of the CECAFA sides. Only one change was made on Kenya’s starting 11, from the team that started against Uganda on Thursday in the first qualifier with Eric Johanna taking Abdallah Hassan’s role. Rwanda has the same team that started against Mali on Wednesday, in their effort to register at least their first draw in the road to Qatar’s fiesta next year. In the opening minute, KAA Gent man Stanley Okumu did well to shield off Tuyisenge who had been sent a long ball into the box allowing Ian Otieno to collect easily. Olunga made Kenya’s first attempt in the fifth, after controlling nicely a cross from Daniel Sakari but Rwanda’s custodian Emery Mvuyekure had no trouble stopping to stop it. Also Read: Three minutes later, quite a scaring melee in Kenya’s goalmouth ended with Bizimana hitting a powerful shot but narrowly off target on the left. Olunga responded immediately for the opener, his 19th goal for Stars, smashing in the ball near the left corner after Mvuyekure spiraled Sakari’s cross which Masoud Juma had attempted to connect. Masoud almost made it 2-0 at the quarter hour mark, his shot flying over the bar with Mvuyekure already out of his line. The Amavubi Wasps restored parity in the 21st, Rwatubyaye deflecting Jaques Tuyisenge’s header past Otieno, the ball bouncing off the ground to the top right corner. Rwanda suffered a blow as forward Lague Byiringiro was injured, and was replaced by former Meddie Kagere in the 26th, both former Gor Mahia strikers. The hosts seemed rejuvenated after levelling, dominating the proceedings later with Stars conceding several free-kicks in space of 10 minutes which were however not converted. Just before the break, Stars had two promising moves which were nevertheless not capitalised on. Masoud dashed down the left channel to the extreme corner before neatly crossing into the box, but both Olunga and Johanna were late to connect. Olunga, released by Kenneth Muguna, blast a hard shot on Rwatubyaye, the last effort of the first half and the Amavubi were lucky to keep the balance. Just after the restart, Olunga had his well taken free-kick from the edge of bix tipped over the bar by Mvuyekure for a corner, which however easily cleared. Kenya’s gaffer Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee then withdrew Lawrence Juma four minutes into the second half, Hassan the Bandari FC attacker taking the role on the right wing. In the 57th, Olunga was danced past two of his markers into the box, only to agonisingly shoot over the bar with Mvuyekure again unlocked. Rwanda who were hitherto under pressure rested Muhire, bringing on Martin Twizerimana of Musanze FC ina bid to bolster their attack. At the hour mark, Olunga’s attempt to tap in at the left corner missed narrowly, the Al-Duhail talisman exhibiting real hunger for a brace. Kagere was in prime position to give Rwanda the lead, having been picked cleverly by Djihad Bizimana through a throw-in into the box, but with only Otieno to beat, shot wide. Twizerimana had his effort headed out by Okumu, the dependavle Kenyan centre back using well his height advantage to smother the hosts’ aerial attempts. Haruna Niyonzima was bold to risk a red card as he brought down substitute Boniface Muchiri who had broken free from his marker in the 83rd, just before he finished what was a promising move for Kenya. Niyonzima escaped red, but was immediately withdrawn, in his 109th cap for Rwanda. Mulee’s last dice to cast in search for a goal was introduction of newly signed AIK forward Henry Meja for Masoud. with only three minutes to the clock. Nothing was to come forth to break the deadlock, as Kenya settled for second point in the qualifiers with Rwanda who lost their opener to Mali away to Morocco, getting their first. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis