A strong field including three Olympic champions have already been confirmed for this year’s Kipkeino Classic Continental Tour meet slated for September 18. Olympic 3,000m steeplechase champion Soufiane El Bakkali of Morocco who brought to an end Kenya’s dominance at the Olympic Games is set for another epic clash with Kenyans at their own turf. Similarly, the women’s Olympic champion in the water and barrier race Peruth Chemutai of Uganda will be making a return to Nairobi after placing sixth in the inaugural event last year. Olympic hammer throw champion Wojciech Nowicki is also expected in the country, same as Iryna Klymets of Ukraine in the women’s event. Fred Kerley, the Olympic 100m silver medallist who is fresh from victory at the Brussels Diamond League is expected to light up the 100m race which is being introduced this year. The in-form Christine Mboma of Namibia is also expected to return to Nairobi in just under two months after bagging the World Under-20 title in 200m. Also Read: The Olympic silver medallist will be joined by compatriot Beatrice Masilingi who clinched silver in both 100m and 200m at the World Under-20 Championships. Commonwealth Games 400m champion Isaac Makwala of Botswana is also expected to battle it out for the top honours at the one-day event. According to meet director Barnaba Korir, organisers are still expecting a galaxy of stars to grace the event which is the only meeting being held on African soil. “We will be announcing more athletes in the coming days. We expect to have a very strong field in all the events since we will be hosting the final meeting and thus many athletes have expressed interest in our event,” said Korir. The Kipkeino Classic meet will be the 12th and final leg of the 2021 Continental Tour Gold series and will as well bring to a close what has been a rigorous track and field season. Organisers have already moved the venue of this year’s event to Kasarani Stadium from Nyayo Stadium that hosted the inaugural event. The 11th leg of the series -Memorial Borisa Hanžekovića- heads to Croatia on September 13-14 before the Kipkeino Classic meet on September 18. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis