Football Kenya Federation (FKF) has reacted to Captain Victor Wanyama’s decision to retire from international football, saying he was still in their national team plans. Wanyama on Monday announced the move after being overlooked in the recent national team assignments, opting to concentrate with the club football. The Montreal Impact midfielder who broke the ceiling as the first Kenyan to play in the English Premier League, however did not relate his retirement with the recent absence in the national team. In a statement sent to newsrooms, FKF has thanked Wanyama for his “immense contribution” to the national team, in the 15 years he played for Harambee Stars. “Whereas, Victor remained integral to the federation’s plans for the national team, Harambee Stars, FKF fully respects his decision to exit international football and wishes him all the best in his club career,” read part of the statement. The development comes just before new head coach Engin Firat announces his provisional squad for the 2022 World Cup qualifiers against Mali next, set for next month. Also Read: “Football Kenya Federation wishes to thank former Harambee Stars Captain, Victor Wanyama, for his immense contribution, dedication and service to the national football team, Harambee Stars. Victor will forever occupy a special place in the history of Kenyan football and the national team. His retirement from international football is the finish line of perhaps the most influential national team career of recent times,” recorded FKF. The federation further recognized Wanyama’s role as Harambee Stars qualified and competed in the 2019 African Cup of Nations (AFCON), after a 15-year absence. “Most importantly, he will forever remain one of Kenya’s greatest international players, who offered so much to Kenya over the last 15 years, including captaining the team during the 2019 AFCON tournament. He is a rare gem, a special talent that this administration is most privileged and honored to have worked so closely with. “The federation remains cognizant of Victor’s contribution to Kenyan football and believes the country will continue to benefit from his leadership and experience in the future.” Under the recently fired head coach Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee, Al Duhail striker Michael Olunga has been the captain, in the absence of Wanyama. With Firat set to announce his squad for the Mali double header, the choice of his captain and the assistant will be of keen interest following Wanyama’s decision. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam