Kirinyaga County Governor Anne Waiguru has launched the construction of cabro parking spaces and street improvement project in Wang’uru town. The town is expected to host the forthcoming Mashujaa Day Celebrations which will be held at Wang’uru Stadium. While addressing the town residents during the launching event, the governor said that the project which is county government flagship project will cover laying of approximately 25,000 square meters of cabro which will create about 600 car parking slots. She said that it will also involve paving of walkways and improvement of the drainage system. “Part of the project is expected to be completed before the forthcoming Mashujaa Day celebration”, said the governor, noting that the cabro parkings will cover both sides of Wang’uru-Gathigiriri road starting from the T-Junction at the Highway to Mwea Rice mills and Wang’uru Stadium. It will also cover both sides of the highway from Sidian Bank to Gathigiriri road junction. Also Read: The govenor noted that the facelift will provide a conducive environment for Wang’uru residents in general, traders, rice millers, the hotels and make the town more attractive to investors and vistors thus making it a stop-over of choise for people travelling along the highway. She added that improved drainage system will create smooth flow of storm water thus ensuring that the town does not get flooded when it rains while the paved streets will ensure smooth flow of traffic within the town. Waiguru pointed our that the project, which will complement the ongoing beautification of Wang’uru town, will also be a source of employment for the youth who will be offering skilled and non skilled labor. She said that the project is part of her administration’s plan to turn the county’s urban centers into economic hubs. Similar projects have been undertaken in Kagio, Kutus, Kerugoya and Kianyaga towns where over 800 cabro paved car parking spaces have been created. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam