Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi has given the strongest possible hint yet that he may go looking for a running mate from the Central Kenya region in his quest for the country’s top seat in 2022. Mudavadi made the revelation in an exclusive interview with Inooro FM on Tuesday morning, citing what he termed as the region’s heavy political muscle. The region, he said, has produced three Heads of State so far, namely; President Uhuru Kenyatta, his predecessor Mwai Kibaki, and the nation’s founding father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta – hence making it formidable. Queried on whether he is looking at a possible second-in-command from Mt. Kenya by the show host Jeff Kuria, Mudavadi responded: “Eeh, inawezekana. Kwa sababu watu wa mlima Kenya wana umaarufu wa kisiasa katika Kenya.” “Tumepata viongozi watatu ambao ni wazaliwa wa mlima Kenya ambao wamewai kuongoza taifa letu. Na hawa ni watu ambao wanapenda biashara na mambo ya uchumi…kwa hivo labda inaweza fanyika.” The ANC party leader also claimed that, as it stands now, the Mt. Kenya region may not field a presidential candidate in 2022, hence the need to select a deputy from there for purposes of inclusion. Also Read: He however further stated that the One Kenya Alliance has not settled on their presidential flagbearer as of yet, adding that negotiations are still ongoimg. “Kuna majadiliano yanaendelea na yatazidi kuendelea, kwa sababu kuna kamati ambayo tumeunda ambayo inaangalia process kama tunakubaliana kwa sera ambazo tunataka tuweke kwa mstari wa mbele. Kwa sababu hatutaki tu kusema kwamba kuna muungano na agenda haijajulikana wazi,” he said. “Majadiliano ambayo yako kwenye One Kenya Alliance, tunataka pia Wakenya wengine wahusike. Kuna vyama vingine ambao wangependa kujua One Kenya inazungumzia nini, tunaweza kufanya kazi nao. Kwa hivo ni lazima tupeane nafasi, na ndio maana tunasema hatuharakishi kufunga mlango na kusema huyu ndio atakuwa candidate.” For nearly the 7th time in three months, Mudavadi pitched tent in Central Kenya this past weekend when he attended a fundraiser at St. Cecilia Catholic Church in Nyandarua County. The One Kenya Alliance co-principal has visited Nyeri County twice, Murang’a County, Nakuru County and last week he was in Githunguri, Kiambu County, as he faces Mt. Kenya for the critical presidential vote. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis