The newly crowned FKF-PL Most Valuable Player Eric Kapaito says he now wants an FKF Premier League winners’ medal around his neck after his latest recognition as a star of Kenyan football. Kapaito won the MVP and the Golden Boot awards during Tuesday night’s Gala, marking the second time he’s achieved that feat but the player who scores for fun has yet to win the league title. The Kariobangi Sharks and Harambee Stars forward who netted 24 goals in the 2020/21 FKF-PL season, has been consistent in his message his major aim whenever he steps on the pitch is to chase the league title, everything else coming second. “I really want to win the Premier League medal. I have won several personal awards and the Cup medal already. I hope and believe this can happen next season,” he said. Kapaito, who took home Sh1.5 million for the two categories in the FKF gala on Tuesday night, has however hinted he could be on his way out of his current team Kariobangi Sharks. “…win with my current club, yes if I will be there. I just want to win the league, I don’t know where I will be for now because there are clubs that have shown interest in me but nothing has been concluded yet. Something good is coming up,” he said. Also Read: Reports indicate Kapaito could be heading to a Moroccan club soon, which he could not confirm immediately. Sharks finished fifth on the FKF-PL table last season, with Kapaito netting almost half of the goals they hit in the entire campaign, 24 out of 45. On his narrowly missed target to break the 26-goal record of most goals scored in a season in Kenya’s Premier League history, Kapaito conceded the bar is quite high. “It is a dream of every player excelling in a certain area to break records especially when you have realistic chances. I think I did my best and given a chance next season I will attempt it again. “It is also fair to say the bar was set too high, because it is not easy to score 26 goals even in the global elite leagues. In Kenya it has not been easy to score more than 20 goals in a season, but I believe one day someone will break it,” explained Kapaito, paying tribute to the record holder Boniface Ambani who he openly says deserves much respect from the current generation. He also hopes that soon he will shine in the national colours as he continues to patiently wait for a chance in the Harambee Stars, having been called up a couple of times but missing out in the first team during international matches. “It’s a question of time and chance, I believe mine will come too and I will play and score goals for my national team,” he concluded. Video Of The Day: Iconic city hotels staring at bleak future