Rogers Aloro has disclosed that he had a mutual agreement with Tusker FC to terminate the remainder of his contract, which was set to expire on November 30. The Ugandan joined the FKF Premier League champions from Sofapaka FC in 2018 and was an instrumental piece in coach Robert Matano’s title winning side. But the club informed him he would not be a part of its future plans, after which the player requested to walk away from his contract and explore his options soon enough. “If they hadn’t released me now, it would have been difficult for me to find a team while the window is closed. That’s why we agreed to end it now,” Aloro said. The centre half won back-to-back Uganda Premier League titles with KCCA in 2011, 2012 and 2013 before clinching another one with Sports Villa in 2015. He made it five this year by winning his first top flight title with Tusker, combining exceptionally with skipper Eugene Asike at the heart of the Brewers defense. Also Read: “I have already started negotiating with a few clubs who have shown interest in me. I’m still assessing them and would love to continue playing in Kenya for now and perhaps abroad later in my career,” Aloro added. Tusker have released 11 players ahead of the 2021/22 season which include former Gor Mahia FC forward George Odhiambo, former MVP Michael Madoya, Luke Namanda, Rodgers Aloro, Brian Marita, Faraj Ominde, goalkeeper Robert Mboya, Sammy Meja, and Eric Ambunya. Crispinus Onyango, Brian Marita, Faraj Ominde, Chris Ochieng, Robert Mboya, Robert Aloro, Sammy Meja, and Eric Ambunya are the other players who have left the 12-time Premier League winners. On the other hand Tusker have signed former Gor Mahia defender Charles Momanyi, Harambee Stars goalkeeper Patrick Matasi as well as Tanzanian duo of Kalos Kirenge and Joshua Ibrahim. The team is currently camping in Mombasa for a one-week pre-season program ahead of their Caf Champions League preliminary round matches set for next month. Tusker have been drawn against Djibouti’s Artar Solar in the preliminary round of the Caf Champions League. The first leg will be played between September 10-12 with the second leg planned for September 17-19. Before travelling to Mombasa, Tusker on Saturday played a friendly match against the national team Harambee Stars which is preparing to play Uganda in a Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifier on Thursday and they lost 1-0 with Tusker midfielder Boniface Muchiri scoring the goal. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis