The Kenya men’s volleyball team is over the moon after their historic 3-2 win over red-hot Egypt Wednesday in their Africa Nations Volleyball Championships pool ‘D’ opener staged at the Kigali Arena in Rwanda’s capital. Wafalme edged the eight-time champions in a five-set thriller in a huge statement of intent at the biennial volleyball premier championship, with the win putting the Kenyans firmly on course to secure a quarter final place. So often bullied by Africa’s volleyball heavyweights, Kenya got off the canvas and lifted Egypt off its feet with a huge uppercut that sent shockwaves through the sport winning in sets of 25-19, 25-22, 25-20, 25-18, 15-12. From service to reception, blocking to spiking, Wafalme who arrived in the land of thousand hills as underdogs did the right thing at the right time, under the strong technical bench stewardship led by head coach Gideon Tarus alongside veteran coach David Lung’aho and experienced Sammy Mulinge. Whenever the Kenyan players touched the ball, it turned into gold with captain Enock Mogeni leading the Pharaohs onslaught with a strong performance as he made debut for the national team. That thumping win over the North Africans, who were among the pre-championship favourites will, according to Tarus, help Wafalme in their bid to burst onto the Africa stage after years of frustration and strife. Also Read: “It was the best feeling ever! Defeating Egypt was a big plus because they’re one of the best teams in Africa. We will face our next opponents heads high and that performance confirmed we can be whatever we want to be in Africa and beyond,” said Tarus. On his part, Mogeni gasped with excitement saying the win was a massive boost to the squad as they eye to improve their fortunes in the continental scene. “Wafalme will join the volleyball echelons soon. We have what it takes to be among the best. No one believed we would win against Egypt but determination and support from our fans back home made this happen. We will continue to push and see where we can reach at this championship,” said the right attacker, who plays for Kenya Ports Authority. The Kenyans return to court Thursday at 8pm to face group leaders Morocco who beat Tanzania in straight sets on Wednesday. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive