The Kenya Footballers Welfare Association (KEFWA) is set to hold the first-ever non-contracted players selection which will be held from Tuesday, 28th September at Two Rivers Sports District Grounds, located alongside The Two Rivers Mall. The event will be targeting Kenyan football players who are out of contract with an aim of reviving their careers, making them fit and marketing them to other clubs by linking them up with club officials and scouts. This is according to James Situma, who is the Kefwa president. “We are targeting non-contracted players who do not have a team presently due to various reasons (injuries among other issues). With this project we will be able to keep our members more active by engaging them in training, friendlies and linking them up with other teams when they pick form and also marketing their talents,” Situma noted. The Kefwa supremo noted that their members were facing challenges in trying to revive their careers due to lack of playtime, especially when the transfer window is closed. “When the transfer window is closed, you find that the majority of the players are not active since they lack playtime. This is why we saw it important to engage with these players so that rather than them just staying at home, they could use this opportunity to revive their careers,” he added. On his part, former Gor Mahia FC forward and Kefwa Head of Education Department Dan Makori who will be a Technical Director of the project noted that apart from offering training and marketing players to professional clubs, Kefwa will also have other programs that members will benefit from. Also Read: The players’ union also runs other programs that include life skills education, mental health awareness, anti-doping, match-fixing, financial literacy, personal branding among others. “For the first-phase, we are targeting to recruit a team of 25 players who will include three goalkeepers, eight defenders, seven midfielders and seven attackers. Those players who are eligible to take part must have played professional football, at least from the National Super League (NSL), Kenyan Premier League (KPL) onwards,” Makori stated. Situma has now called upon other stakeholders to come on board and support the initiative, noting that there is a need for such programs to be rolled out nationally so as to reach players across the country. “Nobody can make great progress alone and as Kefwa we are open to partnering up with different stakeholders who may wish to join us. We will be delighted to have more people on board. The opportunity will reach out to hundreds of other football players including our women football in the next editions,” he concluded. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam