Time is running out for Gor Mahia to sign new players ahead of the new season, with the club aiming quality players who are however proving too expensive for the record Kenyan Champions. According to Club Sporting Director Lordvick Aduda, they want to bring to an end the trend of recruiting players they cannot sustain. This, according to Aduda, has cost them hefty fines which end up escalating their financial burden when aggrieved players go to FIFA to force payments once they leave the club. Thus, the technical bench has already identified ‘’good’’ players but no deal has been completed yet with the puzzle of achieving quality but cheap additions still unraveled. ‘’I want to tell those who are eager to know our potential signings to give us time. We cannot afford to rush for unsustainable players who will later take us to FIFA, as has been the case recently. Recruiting quality and sustainable players requires money, which we don’t have at the moment,’’ explained Aduda. The long serving club official at the same time called for co-operation between the club and all stakeholders in order to exploit other avenues of generating money. This is after ‘the 2 million Dollar initiative’ failed to pick. Also Read: ‘’We came up with a good initiative. Those critics did not embrace the 2 million Dollar plan which could have bailed out the club. We now need to come together and explore other money generating avenues in order to bring the club back to its feet.’’  Only last week, FIFA lifted the transfer ban they had slapped on Gor after the club paid former players who had sued them for non-payment when their contracts were terminated. In a communication from FIFA addressed to the club last Saturday, the global football governing body acknowledged the receipt of communication from the aggrieved players confirming settlement of the dispute hence lifted the transfer ban. Aduda said the technical bench has already identified the players fit to join the club and they have held talks, only awaiting for funds to initiate the signings. However, club assistant coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo intimated that Malian International shot-stopper Adama Keita is already training with the club but has not yet signed. ‘’He is a good player who can help us at the continental level. I have seen him train with our players and I like his commitment and confidence between the sticks,’’ said Omollo. Meanwhile, Aduda has said the club will on Tuesday write to FIFA via the local federation requesting to submit more names of players who will feature in the CAF Confederations Cup. This is after the initial list was sent without any new signings before FIFA lifted the transfer ban. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive