Rising Starlets head coach Charles Okere is adamant all is not lost in their bid to qualify for the 2022 FIFA U-20 Women World Cup, despite their humiliating 2-7 defeat to Uganda on Saturday at the Nyayo Stadium – Nairobi. Okere, who also trains the senior team Harambee Starlets, expects his girls to be as ruthless as the Crested Cranes were when the two sides clash in the return match on October 8 in Uganda. By halftime, Starlets had gone down 6-0, and needed some magic to avoid more punishment in the second half, only conceding one more while scoring two. “We cannot throw in the towel now. If they (Uganda) scored seven goals away it means we can do the same in Uganda. You saw how different we were in the second half and we learnt some crucial things we will employ in the return leg,” said Okere. Okere also noted the will be preparing for the rematch with utmost focus despite the five-goal deficit. “We break for only two days and we get back to work because if we rest for too long, we may drop in terms of the little things we have already achieved so far. We have a lot of work to do in our defence because we gave them cheap goals which we would have avoided,” Okere noted. Also Read: On his part, Uganda head coach Khalifa Ayub applauded his players for the well done job, promising a different approach in the October 8 duel. “They followed instructions and used first half effectively. We need to have a different game plan especially after failing to play as expected in the second half,” Ayub said. The Ugandans controlled the match with Juliet Nalukenge netting the visitors’ first goal in the second minute and added the fifth goal in the 39th minute. Sumeiya Komuntale also scored a brace for Uganda in the 45+1 and 88th minute. Uganda got other goals through Margret Kunihira in the 17th minute, Fauzia Najjemba in the 21st and Shamirah Naluguha who converted a penalty in the 26th after Juliet Naluguha was brought down in the area. Shaylene Opisa scored consolation goals for Kenya in the 61st and 79th minutes but it was too little to cover the hosts’ face. Only two teams from Africa will qualify for the World Cup after five qualifying rounds. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam