A Form 2 student at Chavakali Boys High School in Vihiga County is the talk of town after he walked an approximated 35 kilometres after he was sent home for school fees. The student, who scored 384 marks in the 2019 KCPE, walked all the way to Kakamega town due to lack of bus fare. The teenager spent the better part of the night in Kakamega town only for security guards to come to his rescue. “I was on my way home to Trans Nzoia when it got dark. The guards I met in Kakamega came to my aid. They said I could stay with them for the night as they think of a way out. I appeal to anyone who can help pay my school fees to assist as I would like to go back to school,” said Kiprop. Much to the boy’s relief, a well-wisher from Lurambi, Eunice Nekesa, took him in late into the night. “They boy is here with me and in good health. As a woman, I felt compelled to assist him given the situation,” she said. Locals have in the meantime led calls for the boy to be assisted by leaders even as some questioned why such a bright boy is not a beneficiary of the Constituency Development Fund (CDF). Also Read: Kenyans on Twitter were not left behind as they aired their frustrations and support alike: “Good morning good people, each day such a story is being aired and it breaks my heart as it breaks yours as well…. As a solution to the many more who we may not know, Why don’t we come together as communities and help this children. We as Kenyans are the solution to our problems,” tweeted Joan Chebii. “This is unbelievably cruel. As long as nothing is done to those that make such decisions, this will unfortunately happen again and again. Impunity will finish whatever little that remains of Kenya!” added Tyras Waiyaki. Sam Obaja opined: “Are those teachers & principals not parents? How would they feel if their kids when through such an ordeal? What if something bad happened on the road? We need a humane way of handling such issues. Magoha needs to reign on this.” “Yet Free Secondary education in Jubilee manifesto disappeared with Osmosis and presipitations that followed thereafter,” said Hesborn Ongudi Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis