Coach Frank Ouna has moved to Rwanda to head the technical bench of Musanze FC  and is hoping that he succeeds in his new role so as to open doors for more Kenyan tacticians to move to Rwanda. Speaking from Rwanda, Ouna said he decided not to renew his  contract with Mathare United. His exit means the ‘slum boys’ are in the market for a replacement. “I confirm that I have joined Musanze FC in Rwanda for a contract of two years. It’s obvious that I am happy to make this move because it’s a step forward in my career moving away from Kenyan league. I hope to succeed so as to raise the bar for recognition of Kenyan coaches thus opening doors for them by being poached directly or through me,” said Ouna. The Caf ‘A’ license holder who also won the league title while working as an assistant  to coach Bobby Williamson at Gor Mahia also boasts of stints with the national football team Harambee Stars under Stanley Okumbi between 2016 and 2018. The soft-spoken Ouna also led Wazito to promotion to the top-flight two seasons ago. Also Read: “I have left Mathare but I feel some pain because I had made a family there, the team had gelled nicely and we finished the season strongly, losing only one of six last matches against Bandari FC, a good foundation to start the new season strongly. But everything has its own end and I don’t rule out coming back to Mathare to finish what I started,” added the coach. He thanked the club’s management, fans, players and his technical bench for achieving what they set forth to do. Ouna took over the reins at Mathare in February when the club was facing the prospects of being relegated only for him to turn around their performance in the last five games to help them survive the chop. Nobody would have ever envisioned Mathare United surmounting their greatest adversity in history to consolidate their Kenyan Premier League status. Beleaguered by financial misfortunes and injuries, the ‘Slum Boys’ quivered unsteadily on the brink of relegation throughout the better part of the season. It is believed that Mathare United are in talks with Ezekiel Akwana and David Ouma to take over from Frank Ouna. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive