Kenya Football Coaches Association (KEFOCA) has questioned the way Football Kenya Federation (FKF) is handling appointment of national team coaches. According to KEFOCA chairman Ricky Solomon, FKF has failed in the task and has ignored their advice, ending up making wrong decisions. “I don’t know why Nick Mwendwa (FKF president) always sidelines us when it comes to hiring and firing of coaches and it is an area we can be of great help,” wondered Solomon. The former Harambee Stars player has at the same time criticised the dismissal of coach Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee without explanation just after two 2020 FIFA World Cup qualifiers.  Stars were held to a barren draw by neighbours Uganda at the Nyayo National Stadium before a 1-1 draw against Rwanda in Kigali three days later, matches that culminated into Mulee’s sacking. Also Read: “Mulee’s results were not so bad and you wonder why he was not given ample time to work with the young team?” he questioned. FKF appointed Turkish Engin Firat just days after dismissing Mulee, on a two-month contract, becoming the seventh coach in Nick Mwendwa’s five years at the helm. Others are Bobby Williamson, Stanley Okumbi, Paul Putt, Sebastian Migne, Francis Kimanzi and Mulee. “The new coach has so little time to know and prepare the team well for the forthcoming qualifiers. That’s enough excuse for whatever outcome. The two-month contract also leaves a lot to be desired,” opined Solomon. However, it is the federation’s sole mandate to hire coaches, and KEFOCA or any other body can only play an advisory role if and when invited to do so. The newly acquired coach is expected to name his first provisional squad to prepare for two crucial matches against Mali in October, for the Qatar World Cup campaign. Mali will host Kenya on October 8 in Morocco before the teams meet three days later in a Group E double header that will also see Rwanda host Uganda before travelling to Kampala for the return leg. The second round of Group E qualifiers will wrap in November where only one of the four teams involved will secure a ticket to the third and final round of the African qualifiers for Qatar 2022. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam