The High Court in Nairobi has barred Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti from rearresting Court of Appeal Judge Sankale ole Kantai over alleged links to the murder of Dutch businessman Tob Cohen. Judge Sankale moved to court seeking the conservatory orders following an explosive testimony by a senior DCI officer which painted a suspicious association between the judge and Sarah Wairimu Cohen, the wife to the deceased tycoon. John Gachomo, the said officer, claimed Judge Sankale actively participated in the planning and cover up of the murder of Cohen. Gachomo alleged that the judge convened several meetings with Sarah Wairimu at different places, location and dates to plan the murder. Judge Sankale, through his lawyer Peter Wanyama, filed the petition saying he was arrested on February 21, 2020 despite having been cleared by Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji. Wanyama, in his submissions before Justice Anthony Mrima on Tuesday, slammed Gachoma for orchestrating what he termed as “a shocking attack” on the decision by the DPP to clear Judge Sankale. Also Read: “My client is caught up in a supremacy battle between DPP and the DCI; this, if allowed, is an affront to the rule of law,” submitted Wanyama. “The fundamental question is why is DCI oblivious of the power of the DPP? DCI is acting rogue in wanting to arrest the judge. The fact that he was arrested in a dramatic fashion has made the petitioner apprehensive, we seek conservatory orders from this court even on a temporary basis.” Anne Mwangi, the counsel representing the DCI, opposed the application saying it does not meet the threshold for the orders sought. According to Ms. Mwangi, the office of the DCI has not shown any intent to arrest Judge Sankale, and that it does even not even make arbitrary arrests in the first place. “The petitioner has expressed fear that he will be arrested, the DCI does not intend to usurp the law, act arbitrarily or even arrest the petitioner,” said Ms. Mwangi. “The second respondent understands the role of the DPP is to prosecute and theirs is to investigate, at no point has the second respondent (DCI) shown intent to prosecute. DCI undertakes to act within the law and has not threatened arrest of petitioner.” Justice Mrima, in his ruling, stated: “There is basis for granting of interim orders, temporary orders, barring IG and DCI from rearresting the petitioner until the petition is heard and determined.” He further directed that IG Mutyambai and DCI Kinoti not make a move to arrest the judge “until there is express written permission from the DPP.” Judge Sankale was also ordered to serve his submissions and any supplementary affidavits within 21 days, on November 23, 2021. The respondents are hence to file their submissions within 21 days after being served, after which the submissions will be highlighted on November 23, 2021. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam