Malls and other retail centered real-estate properties are seeing a turnaround in fortunes as key retailers resume expansion plans. This to boost the occupancy rates of malls and other outlets which has in-turn lifted yields from rent. According to a new report by Cytonn Research dubbed the Kenya Retail Report 2021, average asking rents have improved by 2.2 per cent to Ksh.118 per square feet (sq. ft) from a lower Ksh.115. At the same time, average occupancy rates for retail properties have improved marginally to 78.4 per cent from 76.6 per cent while the average rental yields sits at 6.8 per cent from 6.7 per cent previously. The improved performance of the retail sector properties has been flanked by aggressive expansion plans mainly led by supermarket chains. For instance, Naivas has opened seven new stores in the year so far including in Kilifi, Kisumu, Nakuru, Eldoret and Nairobi. Also Read: Meanwhile, foreign supermarket chain Carrefour has opened five new stores in Kwale, Nairobi and Kisumu. On its part, Quickmart has four stores in Nairobi and Eldoret. Ten new supermarket stores are set to be opened before the end of this year including four each by Naivas and Quickmart and two by Chandarana Foodplus. Other retailers in ongoing expansion plans in the country which has boosted occupancy rates include Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC), Optica Limited, ArtCaffe Group and Java House. “These aggressive expansion move by the retailers taking up space previously occupied by troubled retailers as well as new retail spaces has therefore boosted the market’s performance,” notes the report. Supermarkets have largely remained anchor tenants for most retail hubs, especially malls hence making their presence in an outlet integral to occupancy by other businesses. For instance, the exit of Shoprite from the Garden City Mall on the Thika Super Highway proved detrimental to the outlet as the overall customer footfall collapsed following the exit of the anchor tenant. Other malls to have recently lost their anchor tenant but replace the key client in recent months have included the Juja City Mall, Southfield Mall, Greenspan Mall and the Next Gen Mall. In large part, the expansion of Naivas and Carrefour supermarkets has served to replenish occupancy in major malls having taken up spaces left behind by ailing chains including Shoprite, Souk, Choppies and Tuskys. Besides the expansion of key retailers, the report cites improved infrastructure development, and the affordability of retail spaces as other factors driving growth in the sector. Nevertheless; e-commerce, constrained spending power among customers, limited access to credit and the oversupply of retail spaces are all seen as headwinds for the sector’s growth. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam