Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss George Kinoti has launched investigations into the circumstances under which a horn of Africa Analyst who was abducted in Nairobi. Speaking to the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslim leadership who presented themselves at the DCI Headquaters seeking to draw his attention to the rising cases of enforced disappearances, Kinoti committed to investigations to establish the whereabouts of Abdiwahab Sheikh Abdisamad. More than 48 hours since the abduction of Abdiwahab Sheikh Abdisamad, we go back to Nairobi’s Central Business District, along Turbman road where he was last seen. It is along Turbman road thatAabdiwahab was accosted by unknown people who cuffed him and forced him into a double cabin vehicle that sped off towards Muindi Mbingu Street. The 10a.m. abduction sending chills down the spines of those who witnessed it. A security guard narrated how Abdiwahab struggled with his abductors numbering four, one of whom held hand cuffs and another who was armed with a pistol in his belt. “Alikuwa na nguvu saana walisumbuana saana mwishowe mmoja akampiga hapa na alipoinama walimweka ndani ya hiyo gari wakaenda na yeye, hata hatujui walienda naye wapi,” the security guard who witnessed the abduction says. The vehicle that was used according to eye witnesses was a white double cabin pick up registration number KCW 341Y. A quick search revealed that the number plate has been flagged illegal by NTSA, as it has not been registered to anyone in the authority’s database. Abdiwahab’s abduction adds to many that have happened in such fashion. Footage that went viral online recently recorded on phone showed a man being picked up by unknown people in Mombasa, the script was the same four men and a double cabin pick up. No amount of heckling by the public stopped them. Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims Leadership and Human Rights groups are sought audience with DCI boss George Kinoti who committed to get to the bottom of the issue of wanton abduction and mysterious disappearances in the country. “Even in the case of Abdiwahab he said it will be investigated and he has said in 7 days he will have answers on his whereabouts,” the council said. The family of the Horn of Africa scholar continued making rounds in police stations in search of their kin Friday to no avail. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive