President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday re-assigned four ministers and Principal Secretaries in new changes to his Cabinet. Amb. Dr. Monica Juma was, in the reshuffle, moved to the Ministry of Energy from Defence, where she is replaced by Eugene Wamalwa who leaves the Devolution docket. Charles Keter will now step into Wamalwa’s shoes at the Devolution docket as he paves way for Dr. Juma at the Energy ministry. Prof. Margaret Kobia will head the newly reconstituted Ministry of Public Service, Gender, Senior Citizens Affairs and Special Programmes. President Kenyatta also re-assigned Principal Secretaries, among them Maj. Gen. Rtd Gordon Kihalangwa who moves to the State Department for Energy from Public Works. Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge moves to the State Department for Transport from Energy; while Solomon Kitungu heads to the State Department for Public Works from Transport. Also Read: Nelson Marwa leaves the State Department for Social Protection to head to that of the Social Protection, Senior Citizens Affairs & Special Programmes. President Kenyatta further made reorganizations and transfer of functions in the structure of government. He transferred the State Department for ASALs to the Ministry of Public Service & Gender; and the State Department for Social Protection, Pensions and Senior Citizens to the Ministry of Public Service & Gender. The Department of Special Programmes was transferred to the newly renamed State Department for Social Protection, Senior Citizens Affairs and Special Programmes. The Head of State reconstituted and renamed the Ministry of Devolution & ASALs as the Ministry of Devolution. The Ministry of Public Service & Gender was reconstituted and renamed as the Ministry of Public Service, Gender, Senior Citizens Affairs & Special Programmes; while the Ministry of Labour & Social Protection was reconstituted and renamed as the Ministry of Labour. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, in a notice of presidential action to newsrooms, said the changes take effect immediately. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam