Division One league side Eldonets head coach James Ndung’u has rallied his charges to focus on their promotion ambitions despite their 49-57 loss against Multimedia University on Sunday in a basketball league match. Ndung’u’s side overcame a 10-point deficit to floor Footprints 46-41 on Saturday but their Sunday setback has got him exploring ways of motivating his players to rediscover their winning formula. “MMU is a very good side and fortunately for them, they played only one game this weekend compared to us who played two. “I am proud of what my girls have done so far this season and I’m positive we will bounce back to win our next game.” Speaking to Citizen Digital, Ndung’u hinted they will go all out to secure a KBF Premier League berth at the end of the season. Eldonets are currently ranked fifth in the second-tier league and will have to work hard to make the cut for this season’s finals if they are to earn a promotion to the top-tier league. Also Read: However, the seasoned tactician is not dismayed by the reality of maneuvering through a tricky set of fixtures in their bid for a promotion berth. ‘We are on course to realize our primary objective of reaching the playoffs then we will find our way to the finals. “The weekend loss has not hurt our confidence and I believe we have what it takes to go all the way this season,” he added. Eldonets will take on Kisii University in the next fortnight at the Kisii University court before hosting KCA a week late at the UG High Court in Eldoret. Weekend Results Saturday Men Little Prince 40-31 Nebulas Eldonets 64-49 Umoja ANU 65-39 Coastal Kings Women Eldonets 46-41 Footprints Strathmore 56-41 Africa Nazarene University (ANU) MMU 42-36 Kenya College of Accountancy (KCA) NAC 55-52 Neosasa JKUAT Lynx 51-17 Coastal Queens Men JUAK 75–40 Nebulas Zetech 46-41 Coastal Kings Little Prince 46-60 MAB Eldonets 59-64 Equity bank Women KCA 42-27 Coastal Queens Eldonets 49-57 Multimedia University (MMU)  Video Of The Day: Iconic city hotels staring at bleak future