ODM leader Raila odinga has expressed hope of a grand return of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). Odinga maintains that the BBI referendum drive was intended to achieve equal distribution of resources across the country. He was speaking on Thursday in Limuru, Kiambu County as he stepped up his tour of Central Kenya. Flanked by a section of area leaders including Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, the ODM leader hinted at the return of the constitution review process. He said the BBI reggae, despite being muted at the Court of Appeal, it would make a grand comeback. “Hiyo (BBI) waliangusha, lakini itarudi. Mambo bado… tuko tayari kuhakikisha kwamba kila Mkenya anatapa haki yake,” said Odinga. Also Read: With a group of leaders from Central Kenya pushing for the one-man one-vote one-shilling mantra in the distribution of resources, Odinga claimed BBI had addressed the Mount Kenya concerns through increase in the number of constituencies and allocation shareable to counties. He reiterated that reviving the BBI constitution review exercise was the remedy. “Currently there is no equity in the sharing of national resources. There are counties with a population of  800,000 yet they receive Ksh.12 billion yet Kiambu with a population of 2 million is receiving 9 billion. Is that fair?” posed Odinga. The ODM backed the decision by the Anglican Church to ban politicians at the pulpit. Odinga quipped the church should remain sacred and apolitical, not a platform for political vitriol. “I support the decision by the bishops that we shoul not take politics to the church… let us leave politics outside when we get into the church,” he said. Leaders in Odinga’s entourage said the ODM leader was the region’s best bet as president. They hailed Odinga’s alliance with President Uhuru Kenyatta saying he had Mount Kenya’s interests at heart. Governor Nyoro said: Kwa wakati huu mtu ambaye tumeskia na tunaendelea kuskia ati anajali maslahi ni baba… Sisi tuko na ajenda yetu kama Mount Kenya na ajenda ya Kiambu ni mambo ya maendeleo, mambo ya vijana hata namba mbili tukipea baba tuko na ajenda.”  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam