Deputy President William Ruto has asked Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to decline political assignments and discharge his duty of law enforcement impartially and with diligence. DP Ruto said the ongoing skirmishes in Laikipia have exposed serious lapses in the country’s security service that must be addressed immediately. “Police should be run impartially; the Inspector General should avoid the politicisation of security work in Kenya,” he said. The DP said the police should strive to inspire confidence in Kenyans that they will be served equally, their political affiliations notwithstanding, urging him to demonstrate to the country that he runs an independent office that is not swayed. At the same time, he said “opposition leaders do not have the moral ground to criticise the government since they are the ones who sabotaged its development agenda.” According to him, the Jubilee administration had a clear agenda under the Big Four that he alleged was replaced with the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), adding that the opposition owes Kenyans an apology for derailing the government. Also Read: The DP spoke on Wednesday at his Karen residence during a meeting with Kisii grassroots leaders from Nairobi County. Among MPs present were Millicent Omanga (Nominated), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), George Theuri (Embakasi West), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Nixon Korir (Lang’ata), Naomi Waqo (Nominated), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Iman Falhada (Nominated), as well as former MP Omingo Magara and retired footballer McDonald Mariga. Kihika said Kenyans should shun tribal political parties and instead embrace national political parties with a clear agenda for them. Jumwa said those in the Hustler Nation formation are coming together, irrespective of their tribes and region, to work towards the realisation of the bottom-up economic model. Osoro urged those seeking elective seats not to shy away from competing with fellow candidates in the UDA party for nomination, dismissing the notion that leaders close to the deputy president are assured of the ticket. He urged members of the security agencies to act with speed to resolve insecurity in Laikipia County that has left many dead. “Our security agencies should not be used to only fighting Dr Ruto, they should work towards curbing insecurity in Laikipia where our people are dying,” he said. Kihika, on her part, called on the police to step up efforts to secure Kenyans and their properties citing Laikipia killings as a blunder on their side. She said: “We must demand that the security of this country be at the right place to secure Kenyans and their property.” Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive