Education Cabinet Secretary Prof. George Magoha has told off those criticizing the Competecy-Based Curriculum (CBC), insisting that the government will not stop the implementation of the new education system. Prof. Magoha described those seeking to have the new curricula halted as daydreamers, adding that the CBC is the most transformative thing he has ever seen. “This Competency-Based Curriculum is here to stay. In my life it is the most transformative thing I have seen. I used to be worried that our teachers would compromise it… Right now even the teachers love it,” said the CS. “Those saying they will stop this, you are daydreamers…We are not going to stop.” He was speaking on Tuesday during a breakfast meeting with Education stakeholders to discuss concerns raised on the Competency Based Curriculum. Magoha dismissed concerns that the CBC is expensive and that it is overburdening parents and children with work, but acknowledged there could be a few challenges that can be addressed along the way. Also Read: “Are we right to say that you want to go to court when we already have 5 million children happy to engage with CBC. They enjoy what they are doing. It is true there are challenges but why don’t you bring them in a manner that we can accept you are not doing it for other issues,” he said. Magoha said individuals claiming that the curriculum is expensive and that teachers are not prepared for its implementation are only portraying themselves as fools. “Who in kenya does not know we have trained teachers on CBC. Why are we making things so difficult. What do people want to do when they demonise the most important thing that is going to be the presidential legacy project… He added: “When you open your mouth and shout on television, don’t look like you did not go to school.” The CS parents will have to continue engaging their children in their learning as that is part of their responsibility. “Every parent is intelligent… they must engage their children whether they like it or not because thta is why the children are behaving teh way they are. Who told you your just supposed to produce a child?” posed Magoha. “As far as we are concerned we are going to do everything possible to ensure CBC is successful.” Meanwhile, in a bid to cut costs, the CS has directed public schools to use projectors instead of printing materials needed for use by pupils. Last week, Law Society of Kenya (LSK) President Nelson Havi announced plans to file a petition challenging the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC). In a statement on Twitter, Havi said the petition has been informed by cries from parents, guardians and teachers. “The education system in Kenya should not be an expensive, inefficient and ineffective experiment with our children and their future as is our leadership,” Havi Tweeted on Wednesday. Video Of The Day: Iconic city hotels staring at bleak future