Crown Motors Group, the official distributor of the Nissan brand in Kenya, has unveiled its latest SUV model into the Kenya Market. The Nissan Magnite will seal Nissan’s commitment to the Kenyan Market in the very competitive segment of sub-compact SUVs. “Kenya is one of Nissan’s oldest markets, and we are proud to launch The Nissan Magnite SUV model into this market. This is a SUV like no other, from its attractive aesthetics to its powerful functionality and safety features. We are confident that Kenyans will embrace it,” says Maliha Sheikh, National Sales Manager for Crown Motors Group. In terms of its bold fresh styling, The Nissan Magnite’s exterior sets itself apart thanks to a unique design. The all-LED front light package includes noticeable L-shaped daytime running lights that sit below the stylish slim LED headlamps. Together with the edgy grille, featuring Nissan’s new brand logo, it gives the Nissan Magnite a striking SUV presence. The SUV also boasts of electric folding mirrors and 16” Alloy Wheels. Inside, the Nissan Magnite SUV boasts a spacious layout which includes a high seating position and wide shoulder space between the driver and front passenger. The rear passengers enjoy a spacious level of knee room usually found in larger vehicles. Also Read: An 8-inch infotainment touchscreen compatible with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto give the vehicle a premium feel. The boot has a 336ℓ of cargo space with a 60:40 rear seat split, that makes it easy to pack extra for those longer trips. As for The Nissan Magnite’s engine, it is powered by an all-new, 1.0-liter turbocharged engine that is one of the most powerful in class. Built for urban adventures and great for the Kenyan driver. “The launch of the Nissan Magnite shows Nissan’s commitment in the Kenya market and with over 60 years of presence in the market, our vehicle models speak to the Kenyan people. This is another great milestone for us and we know Kenyans are going to be excited to own The Nissan Magnite SUV,” says Tony Voorhout, Crown Motors Group Managing Director. Crown Motors Group have state of the art facilities in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu and an extensive dealer network through the rest of the country to service our customer needs. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam