Violet Wanyonyi and Maureen Achieng scored seven goals between them as Vihiga Queens demolished Yei Joint Stars of South Sudan 11-0 in their second CAF Champions League group match at the Kasarani Stadium on Wednesday. Striker Tereza Engesha and Jentrix Shikangwa each managed a brace to complete an utterly dominant display from the home side who had needed to bounce back after going down 4-2 in their tournament opening match and they did so emphatically to go second in Pool B. Ethiopia’s Commercial Bank (CBE), who defeated Vihiga in the opening clash, top the group with maximum points after they notched the day’s other massively lopsided result, drubbing Zanzibar’s New Generations 10-1 in an early fixture. CBE First Hat-Trick holder Medina Busser opened the scores in the 7th minute after tapping the ball to the back of the net. Zanzibar’s creative midfielder Husna Mpanja equalized the scores in the 18th minute restoring hopes for side. The second goal for CBE was scored by Loza Geinore in the 32nd minute, putting her team back in the lead but some few minutes later Loza Geinoire notched her second goal in the match. Also Read: Aregash Tadesse scored the third goal for CBE a minute to half mark to before making things 4-1 before the end of first half. Two minutes after the breather, CBC FC was awarded a penalty in which Loza Geinoire converted leading the scores to read 5-1. Loza Geinoire added the sixth goal for CBE in the 58th minute and in the 74th minute, the seventh goal was registered by Hasabe Gila. Medina Busser got her brace after scoring for CBC FC in the 83rd minute, and two minutes later, got her hat-trick. Captain Loza Geinoire scored the tenth goal through a penalty securing the 10-0 win. The final group matches will be played on Friday, September 3, 2021 at the Nyayo National Stadium where Tanzanian side Simba Queens will squire it out with FAD from Djibouti in an early kick off at the Kasarani Stadium before New Generation play Vihiga Queens at Nyayo Stadium. Uganda representatives Lady Doves will tackle PVP from Burundi at Nyayo Stadium while CBE will tackle Yei Join Stars later at Kasarani. Video Of The Day: | CHASING HOPE | KEMRI undertaking stem cell research for treatment of Leishmaniasis