After losing their season opener against AFC Leopards on Sunday, Tusker head coach Robert Matano pegged the loss to an injury-ravaged-squad and explained his decision to play majority of his charges off positions. “The problem is about injuries; we had six to seven injuries and had no fit strikers but we will regroup and come back strongly. We picked about three injuries against Gor Mahia in the Super Cup and today (Sunday) Clyde Senaji has picked a knock,” With the brewers expected to host Egyptian side Zamalek in a fortnight in the CAF continental competition, Matano says he needs to have his players fully recovered to avoid gambling if Tusker are to make it to CAF Champions’ League group stages. Tusker have eight first team players who are still unavailable and its medical team is sweating to have the players fit before facing Zamalek on October 15. Those injured are left back Hillary Wandera, right back Clyde Senaji, centre-backs Eugene Asike and Ugandan Kalos Kirenge as well as forward Ibrahim Joshua. Tusker has so far lost three players who are suffering from malaria and they did not feature against Gor Mahia during FKF Super Cup duel last week. Also Read: The three are custodian Emery Mvuyekure, midfielder Teddy Osok and attacking midfielder Deogracious Ojok. “The solution (to beating Zamalek) is just to have our players who are injured and those that are sick return to fitness, we have five players that a nursing injuries and three that are out sick,” said Matano. Due to the injury crisis at the club, Matano on Sunday picked Shami Kibwana, Daniel Sakari, Eric Zakayo and Apollo Otieno to stand-in for some of the injured players though all were played out of positions. With the just started 2021/2022 Football Kenya Federation Premier League (FKFPL) campaign set for an 18-day break after just one round of matches played in the new season, Matano is hopeful that he will have his players fully recovered before their next match, adding that the loss to Ingwe would act as a ‘morale booster’. “The defeat (against Leopards) is now going to act as a ‘morale booster’ because we will have to sit down and have our challenges ironed out and i am sure in the next three upcoming matches we will change these negative results to positive results” Matano showed optimism. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam