An estimated Ksh.30 billion wort of loans making up part of restructured loans between March 2020 and March 2021 is at risk of default. This is according to new data from the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) on the evolution of payments on restructured loans since the close of the review earlier this year. By the close of the loan restructuring window, banks had restructured an estimated 57% of their entire loan book equivalent to Ksh.1.65 trillion. According to the CBK, the restructured loan book at the end of August 2021 represented about 15 per cent of the total banking sector loan book or an equivalent Ksh.435 billion. 93 percent of the restructured book is performing in accordance to the reviewed terms leaving about seven per cent of the book in doubt/risk of default or an equivalent Ksh.30.4 billion. The entire banking sector loan book is estimated at Ksh.2.901 trillion as of the end of June as per data from the CBK’s domestic assets stock. Also Read: The doubtful share of restructured loans at seven per cent is about half the overall share of the total sector’s non-performing loans (NPLs) which stood at 13.9 per cent at the end of August. While the share of NPLs has been on the decline, CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge says the reserve bank remains vigilant as credit risks remain elevated. Nevertheless, the reserve bank expects a gradual ease to NPLs which is to be complemented by rebounding economic conditions. “We continue to monitor the restructured loan book to ensure there is a good outcome,” Dr. Njoroge said on Wednesday. (On the restructured book in distress). “It’s not like this loans have fallen off the table. The banks and borrowers are working to make sure the loans are fully repaid in particular ways. At the end of the day, normalization will really happen when the economy itself normalizes. The greatest risk would be that of inaction on containing the pandemic.” CBK allowed the restructuring of loans in March last year as part of its policy response to provide a soft landing for the economy under the threats posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam