Vihiga Queens assistant coach Boniface NyamuNyamuh has his eyes on semifinals of the Inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League, slated for November 5 -19 in Cairo, Egypt. He declared his target soon after Wednesday’s draw where where Queens were drawn in Group “B” alongside River Angels of Nigeria, Asfar FC of Morocco and Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa. The coach is not worried of the big names in the pool, noting all teams in the competition have an equal chance from the onset. “We have known our opponents in the CAF champions’ League and many people are saying we are in the group of death. I want to tell them that yes, we are going as underdogs but they should expect a good fight from us. Our aim is to reach the semis and that means we will have to emerge the best in group,” he pledged. He singled out Mamelodi as the toughest opponents in the group, going by their history and strong financial base. “We don’t know much about our opponents, but we understand Memelodi are toughest side to defeat. What we are waiting for was the draw and now we shall focus on each team’s profile and history. The players they fielded in the qualifiers, their kind of play and their respective national team’s performances. By doing so, we will be in a better position to register good results,” said NyamuNyamuh. Also Read: Sundowns is owned by CAF president Patrice Motsepe, the South African billionaire who rose to the top seat of African football this earlier this year. Vihiga have intensified their preparations ahead of the continental showpiece at the Kidundu Stadium in Vihiga County, and although their travelling plans to Cairo have not been rolled out, NyamuNyamuh believes they are on the right track. “We are doing very well in training so far, I’m happy because each and every player is determined.  Last week we introduced Maureen, a Kenyan plying her trade with Ugandan side UCU who we are trying for a possible signing. We have already roped in Christine Nafula although her signing is not official yet. The Ex Gaspo and IF Djurgarden (Sweden) midfielder will boost the central department,” revealed the coach. Queens will kick off their campaign in the second day of the tournament against Mamelodi at the Cairo Military Academy stadium, a day after the opening match pitting Wadi Degla and AS Mande at the Cairo 30 Stadium. They qualified for the continental showpiece after beating Commercial Bank of Ethiopia 2-1 in Nairobi on September 9 in the final of Cecafa Women Club Championships. Pool A consists of hosts Wadi Degla, Mali’s AS Mande, Equatorial Guinea’s Malabo Kings and Hasaacas Ladies from Ghana. For now, they are gearing up for the FKF Women’s Cup final to be played on Saturday against Ulinzi Starlets. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam