Kakamega Golf Club will this weekend play host to the ongoing NCBA Golf Series. This will be the fifteenth event in the tournament that kicked-off in January this year. Action at the par-72 Kakamega Golf Club tees-off early in the morning with the first group taking to the tee at 7:00 a.m. Over 100 golfers are expected to take to the course with the aim of booking a spot in the grand finale which will be held at the Karen Country Club in December.  So far, 65 players from previous tournaments have qualified for the ultimate tournament with 1900 golfers having featured in the series. The tournament will coincide with the NCBA bank’s planned branch opening in Kakamega town as part of the Group’s expansion strategy. The Group has in 2021 opened six new branches across the country and intends to open nine additional branches by the end of the year. Speaking ahead of the event, John Gachora, Group Managing Director, NCBA Group noted: “We are delighted to be taking this series to the western region. So far, the series has produced 14 overall winners. As a bank, golf provides us with an opportunity to understand our customer needs and preferences. We look forward to the tournament as it will also provide us an opportunity to meet existing and potential customers in Kakamega as we celebrate our branch opening.” So far, NCBA Series has been held in Thika, VetLab, Kitale, Sigona, Nyali, Mombasa, Nyeri, Nanyuki, Kiambu, Nakuru, Machakos, Limuru and Karen with the latter hosting the series’ first of the two junior golf events. Also Read: Top winners from the junior NCBA tournament qualified to play at the Rome Classic in October this year and the Big 5 tournament to be held in South Africa next year. Junior golfers have a good showing in the running Golf series; most recently the youngest overall junior golfer – Mumbi Gatu, carded an impressive round of 49 points to emerge the overall winner at the Limuru Country Club this past weekend. Video Of The Day: People living with disability call for inclusion in vaccination drive