 On August 9, 2022, Kenyans will take to the
polls to elect the country’s fifth president. On paper, Deputy President William Ruto and
ODM leader Raila Odinga are the frontrunners in the race to State House, but
many expected outgoing governors to throw their hat in the ring as well. Despite devolved counties having been hailed
as nurturing grounds for the country’s next president, a number of governors
have openly declared their support for either Ruto or Odinga. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya last year
declared his desire to vie for the presidency in 2022 under the ODM party
ticket, but he has visibly been a part of Odinga’s procession during the former
premier’s many tours of the country in recent months. Speaking on Citizen TV’s News Night show on
Tuesday, the ODM Deputy party leader clarified that he applied to run for presidency
under the ODM party ticket and paid the required Ksh.1 million to facilitate
his application but the party has since gone mum. “As a party, ODM has its own nomination
procedures. In one of the meetings we agreed to nominate our presidential
candidates as early as possible so that our members can know the presidential
candidates,” Oparaya said. “I paid the Ksh.1 million and we were told
that was the height of COVID-19 so we could not be allowed to meet delegates
and campaign and then we were told that our application could not be processed
for that purpose and thereafter we have not gotten information.” Oparanya nevertheless said that should his
application be processed before the party announces its presidential candidate,
presumably next year, then he might still have a shot at the presidency. Oparanya also underscored that based on the
following Odinga commands, it should come as no surprise if he decides to
abandon his aspirations to support him. On his part, former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto
underscored that governors should be in no rush to vie for the country’s top
job but should instead bide their time and gain valuable experience. “I don’t think it is urgent for the governors
to contest for the presidency. The work of a governor is a full-time job. It is
like the parliamentary or senatorial seat where one can get involved in
politics heavily,” he said. Ruto however cautioned governors who are
actively participating in presidential campaigns to stop abandoning their posts
and focus their efforts on development instead. “A governor is a CEO of a specific county and
it would be a waste of resources of the specific county where he represents if
he were to be absent that would be similar to abdicating his duties,” he said.  “I think it is important for the government
to pay attention to the nitty-gritty of development of the counties they
actually lead as of now therefore it would not be most appropriate for
governors to touch on presidential campaigns.”