 President
Uhuru Kenyatta has condemned the recent acts of violence by a few police
officers witnessed in the country. Speaking
during the General Service Unit (GSU) officers passing out parade at Embakasi on
Wednesday, President Kenyatta advised officers to seek alternative conflict
resolution ways instead of resorting to violence. The
Head of State cautioned the now commissioned GSU officers against using
authorized weapons against civilians who they are bound by law to protect. “Hakuna
haja saa zingine ya kufanya vitendo ambavyo tunaona. Bunduki yako ni ya kulinda
maisha sio ya kuchukua maisha,” he stated. While
acknowledging the current upsurge of mental health concerns in the country, the
president advised the affected officers to consider sharing their frustrations
with either their peers, workmates, superiors, or family members in order to
avoid escalating. “Ni
taabu ambayo tunataka kushughulikia kama serikali lakini haswa kwenu nyinyi,
nawasihi, ukiona uko na shida; iwe ni shida ya kinyumbani, iwe ni shida ya
kikazi, tafuta mwenzako, tafuta officer mkubwa wako au utafute family member
wako muongee naye na utapata suluhu ya shida yako,” he advised. President
Kenyatta vowed that his government would work to ensure that stakeholders
actively participate to help those suffering from mental health issues to curb
the rising cases of homicides. “There
is nothing that cannot be resolved. We have this problem and it is part of us,
and it is not only amongst you, it is amongst many Kenyans today. But we can
address it and we are ready to work together with you,” said president Kenyatta. He
thus implored the officers to come out and seek solutions from the laid-out
institutions to help address the disputes. “Please
just step forward, there is no shame in it and we can find solutions, we can
help you solve your problems and become a better officer going forward,” promised
the Commander-in-Chief.  This
comes barely a day after a rogue police officer went on a shooting spree killing
five people before taking his own life in Kabete, Kiambu County. 