 The ruler of Dubai Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid
al-Maktoum has been ordered to pay his ex-wife Princess Haya bint al-Hussein
more than $728 million (Ksh. 82 billion), in one of the largest divorce settlements
ever handed down by a UK court. The figure will be used to cover Princess
Haya's security costs for the rest of her life, as well as ongoing costs for
the couple's two children -- Al Jalila Bint Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum and
Sheikh Zayed Bin Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum -- with an upfront payment of
$333 million (Ksh.37.62 billion) due in the next three months. There is no fixed value on the total
settlement, as the court ruled that Sheikh Mohammed should pay the annual
security costs for his two children, aged nine and 14, for the rest of their
lives or until a further court order is issued. In his written judgement published Tuesday,
Mr Justice Moor found that the biggest threat facing Princess Haya and her
children Jalila and Zayed, is from "[Sheikh Mohammed] himself, not from
outside sources." The determination was made in reference to
the Sheikh's "campaign" of intimidation inflicted on Princess Haya,
including "his ability to make use of the Pegasus software, which is only
available to governments," to spy on the princess and her staff a
revelation which surfaced in court documents in October. Other details about Sheikh Mohammed and
Princess Haya's married life were disclosed in the written judgment, including
evidence that the princess paid four security staff some £6.7 million ($8.8
million) in blackmail money to stay silent over an affair she had with one of
them. Details of the affair were heard in court
earlier in the case, including allegations from the Princess that she had
received a threatening phone call from Sheikh Mohammed about it at the time
which left her feeling "terrified." The divorce settlement marks the final stage
in a years-long battle between the estranged couple, during which the UK high
court determined that Sheikh Mohammed used his "immense wealth, political
power and international influence" in an attempt to bully and silence the
47-year-old princess. A separate ruling delivered in March 2020
concluded Sheikh Mohammed had previously organized the abduction of two of his
daughters and forcibly returned them to Dubai, where he held them against their
will. The Sheikh has repeatedly denied all claims
raised in the case.