 President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday made an
extensive inspection tour of the 27.1-kilometer Nairobi Expressway during which
he expressed satisfaction with the progress of the key road. When complete in March next year, the 8-lane
elevated dual carriageway expected to significantly decongest Mombasa Road and
reduce travel time between Mlolongo and Westlands to 20 minutes. During the inspection visit, President
Kenyatta, who was accompanied by Infrastructure CS James Macharia and Nairobi
Metropolitan Services (NMS) Director General Mohamed Badi, laid the final box
girder bridge, a year after the first was laid on 26th December 2020. "It is a proud moment for us as Kenyans
as we are here today witnessing the laying of the last of these girders that
are linking this new superhighway, the Nairobi Express Way,” the President
said. The Head of State commended the contractor
for a job well done and expressed confidence that the road will be ready for
use by March next year. “I want to the thank the contractors because
we started this project exactly almost to date one year ago when we laid the
first box girder and today, almost to the date, three days earlier to one year,
we are now laying the last. “I am confident with the kind of speed that
they are moving at, the indicated date of March for completion of this road is
bound to be met. I will be very proud to be able to drive all the way from
Machakos turn-off to Rironi and hopefully, at that point, launch the road from
Rironi to Mau Summit,” the President said. Constructed under a Public Private
Partnership (PPP), the President affirmed Kenya’s commitment to continue
working with the Chinese Government which he said continues to be Kenya's key
development partner. “Our partnership with China is one that is
mutually beneficial, that is based on win-win, and we are very grateful to the
Chinese Government and people for the support that they continue to render not
only our country but to the rest of Africa,” President Kenyatta said. President Kenyatta said the expressway had
created over 6,000 direct jobs, benefitted 200 sub-contractors and hundreds of
other local suppliers of building materials such as steel, sand, cement and
ballast. “I want to thank everybody, the Ministry, the
contractor, the Chinese Government, security agencies who have ensured that
people are able to work on a 24-hour basis, NMS and all those who have been
involved,” President Kenyatta said. The Head of State observed that the
expressway was among the many ongoing road construction projects in Nairobi
totalling to over 420 kilometers. “The difference that has been occasioned by
road building, drainage and sewage being put in, I do believe that within
another two years Nairobi will be a truly 21st Century city, catering for its
population in a positive manner and in a manner befitting our people,” the
President noted. On his part Infrastructure CS James Macharia
thanked the President for championing the project saying its completion will
significantly decongest Mombasa Road. “We thank you for the support, because this
project will make a very big difference for our country. After it is finished
in March, people will be taking 20 minutes only from the airport to James
Gichuru Road,” CS Macharia said. He said the expressway is just one of several
Nairobi link roads lined up noting that a similar project to connect Mlolongo
to the Machakos turn-off, a distance of 20 kilometers, was underway.  “After we finish this project, James Gichuru
27 kilometers, there is another 25 kilometers to Rironi,” CS Macharia said.