 Deputy President William Ruto has promised to revamp the livestock sector for pastoralists in Kajiado in a bid to improve their livelihoods. DP Ruto was addressing a rally at Ilbisil in Kajiado County on Friday where he vowed his government would invest heavily in promoting breeds of livestock, combating droughts and buying their produce (milk and meat). “Hapa Kajiado ni nchi ya wafugaji. Lazima tuweke pesa ya serikali kusaidia wakulima na wafugaji, tuwapatie mbegu sawasawa ya mifugo yenu, tuwapangie soko ya maziwa na tupange soko ya nyama ili tuhakikishe kile mmoja anaweka pesa kwa mfuko,” Ruto stated. The deputy president highlighted the key problems affecting the residents in the region such as drought, floods and poverty saying that if elected president, he would prioritize changing the narrative of recurrent problems in the country. “Shida ya Kenya ni kuwa 80% ya wafanyikazi wa chini wanasumbuliwa na mvua, wanapigwa na jua, kama si jua wanasumbuliwa na fuliza, kama si fuliza wanasumbuliwa na sherlock, kama sio fuliza, wamewekwa kwa CRB,” he said. The DP told off his competitors claiming that they do not have a track record for what they have done in the country and the region at large. He rode on the government projects as his track record in infrastructure developments, roads, education and health care. “Kazi ya hawa wengine hapa Kajiado iko wapi? Nyingi mtapatia mtu kura na kazi kwa sababau amesema kitendawili riaa?” he posed. Ruto further criticized former Prime Minister Raila Odinga attributing the failures of the Jubilee government to the handshake between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta. "Tulikuwa na mpango wa Big Four ambayo ingeleta ajira kwa hawa vijana, mambo ya kilimo na universal health. Lakini tulipata wageni ambao walituletea mambo ya Tibim, reggae na riaa, maendeleo ikasimama," Ruto said. He lauded his United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party for strides it has made claiming “it is the most popular party in Kenya with over 160 MPs”, calling upon more members to subscribe to the bottom-up approach which seeks to foster economic growth.