 The Ministry of Health insists that COVID-19
vaccination remains voluntary despite an earlier directive that only those who
are fully vaccinated will receive access to public services. This comes after Kenya received 4.6 million
doses of the AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson vaccines from the
governments of Argentina and Germany that is set to boost the country's COVID-19
vaccination drive. The December 21 deadline is fast approaching,
a date when the ministry is set to make true its claims of denying persons not
fully vaccinated any access to public services. “Let us not do the
usual thing of waiting until the last minute to start rushing for the vaccine,
we set that deadline a long time ago to say that if you want to get on a train,
to go to a restaurant, a government office or get onto a plane, you have to be
vaccinated,” said Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe. According to CS Kagwe, the ministry's
decision does not in any way indicate that vaccination is mandatory. “We are not forcing
any Kenyan to be vaccinated, it is not mandatory. If you dont want to be
vaccinated that’s fine with us, so you will be free to operate in a manner that
you can, we are sure you will be creative about it, but we cannot risk other Kenyans
because 1 or 2 people do not want be vaccinated,” he said. Annet Gunther,
German Ambassador to Kenya, said: “No one is safe until everyone is safe, that
is why we regard it as our responsibility to contribute and help our partners
worldwide.” “In the course of
the week we shall be receiving 1.2 million doses of Johnson and Johnson from the
United States of America,” added CS Kagwe. Only 11% of Kenya's population has been fully
vaccinated, a representation of just 3 million people. Another 4.6 million have
been partially vaccinated. On Wednesday, faith leaders are expected to
launch the national COVID-19 vaccination campaign where they will commit to
allow the Ministry of Health to use places of worship as venues of vaccination. With the new consignment coupled up with a
vaccination rate of at least 100,000 people a day, Kenya hopes to vaccinate 10
million adults by the end of December. Kenya however remains on high alert following
confirmation by the Uganda virus research institute that seven cases of the Omicron
variant were detected in the country. According to the countrys' Director of
Clinical Services, the variant was detected in travelers from South Africa and
Nigeria who arrived in Uganda on November 29.  Five of the travelers were from Nigeria and two
came from South Africa.