Former Devolution Principal Secretary Irungu Nyakera has censured leaders, particularly governors, saying they are to blame for some of the devolution structures that have not been working as expected. He says that despite the systemic hitches of devolving funds to counties, leaders in top positions are being given discretion, more reason to why funds are embezzled. "We are giving discretion to the people in those positions. The idea should be whether you have a good or a bad governor there should be no room for staling money, under the discretion of allocation of funds," he said on Citizen TV's Day Break show on Wednesday. The former PS, who is eyeing the Murang'a Governor seat in 2022, rather advises that structures should be put in place to improve the relationship between the national government and the county governments. "It behooves the national government to set up the structures and the systems to ensure that there is very good accountability on where the funds are going and how they are being utilized," said Nyakera. "When that happens then everybody feels that money released to the counties is not going to waste. You'll find that everybody is comfortable with money leaving the treasury going to the national government," he added. CAS for Public Service and Gender Affairs Beatrice Elachi, who was also appearing on the show alongside Nyakera, said Devolution is an intricate matter if not manned rightfully. She urged governors who will be elected in the 2022 polls to cut the gap between the counties and the national government and propel the strides achieved by the Jubilee government. "From 2013 the President has been consistent in supporting devolution but there are things that leaders in the counties should have done better for mwanachi. And if you're a presidential candidate you must ask yourself who will be the best governor to come up with the best model," said Elachi. "Going forward, I urge the governors who will be in the next government of 2022 to work closely with the national government for the benefit of their people to ensure that big projects will be delivered appropriately."