 Family and friends paid glowing tribute to
the late Joseph Gilbert Kibe at a memorial to honor the departed businessman
and former high ranking civil servant. His family described him as a kind, compassionate
and supportive father and husband. The memorial service was attended by top
government officials, Royal Media Services (RMS) Chairman Dr. S.K Macharia, and
the Council of Eminent Persons of Murang'a where Kibe was Chairman. In the procession at a memorial mass at the
Consolata Shrine in Westlands, Nairobi, held in honor of Joseph Gilbert Kibe,
fondly referred to as Joe, his family held his portrait as a reminder of a man
they knew as compassionate, present, loving and supportive of his family. His son Victor
Kibe, said: “We’re so overwhelmed and humbled by the fact that dad had
literally touched the lives of hundreds of people. We, as a family, would like
to thank very much all those who sent us messagess, and I want to thank
particularly and most sincerely all of you here who braved this cold morning to
come and be with mum, my siblings, our siblings, and the entire extended Kibe
family.” Joe married Monica Kibe in 1962 and they had
been together for 59 years, together they were blessed with three children;
Captain Gilbert Kibe, Margaret Wanjiku and Victor Kibe. He was a grand father to six grandchildren
and a great grand father to Marc Gilbert Macharia. Monica Kibe, in a
speech read by Charity Mwangi, said: “I thank God for giving me Joe for the 59
years we have been together. Rest well, Joe, my husband and my friend, until we
meet again.” His close friends who attended the memorial
service including Dr S.K Macharia paid tribute to Kibe applauding his devotion
to the service of humanity and his unwavering patriotism to the country. “Joe’s whole life
was about service to humanity, and he loved the people of Murang’a in a very
special way. In the Council of Eminent Persons of Murang’a, the late Mr. Kibe
will be remembered for his great love for Murang’a County and indeed the
Republic of Kenya,” said Dr. S.K Macharia. Joe
made friendships spanning over six decades, his close allies described him as
easy going and kind despite being firm and exerting when necessary. Nicholas Ng'ang'a
of the Council of Eminent Persons of Murang'a said: “We pray that the Almighty God
will rest Joe’s soul in eternal peace.” Joe who successfully worked as civil servant,
a permanent secretary and a businessman lived a robust life, his family
alluding to his regular exercises and healthy diet, he managed well conditions
associated with old age up until his demise on December 1.  Joe was buried on December 3 in line with his
wishes to be laid to rest 72 hours after death. Wednesday’s event was a memorial
service in his honour.