ODM leader Raila Odinga has stated that nothing will prevent him and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi from working together again ahead of the 2022 General Election. Raila spoke at the funeral of Mama Rosabella Jerop Mudavadi, the widow of the late Moses Budamba Mudavadi and stepmother to the ANC leader, in Mululu village. He said his friendship with Mudavadi dates back to their days in parliament and in government, where they served together. He described their relationship as having been cordial. He expressed optimism that the two would get back together to continue with their pursuit of the elusive prize. “We were together in 2007 and again in 2017. We went hunting but our prey was grabbed from us by a hyena” he said. The ODM leader, who is running for president for the fifth time in 2022, said the ongoing campaign should be guided by tolerance and sobriety. He  cautioned politicians against insulting each other in the name of seeking votes. “Hon. Agoi says I had only one bullet. No. I only used the spear to pierce the prey. The bullet is still intact and I am ready to use when we go back to hunt” he said. At the same time, he urged his supporters and those of the ANC leader to be tolerant saying that he will soon have a meeting with him to discuss the next cause step. When it was Mudavadi's turn to speak, he told the audience that politics isn't about holding grudges. “In politics, we must learn to listen to each other and give honest opinions where necessary but not resorting to insults” he said. He said he does not have any personal issues with the ODM leader adding that they have had a long history of friendship which cannot be destroyed by politics. The funeral was attended by thousands of mourners who included Kisumu Governor Prof. Anyang’ Nyong’o, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, area MP Alfred Agoi his Lugari counterpart Ayub Savula, Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala among others. Mama Rosebella was the second wife of senior Mudavadi and co-wife to Mama Hanna Mudavadi who died in December last year.