 Two men have been sentenced to
life imprisonment after they were found guilty of killing a boda boda operator
in Siaya in November 2018. The duo, Benjamin Odhiambo and
Vincent Owuor,  are said to have run over
one Ronald Otieno multiple times during the incident. The event transpired after Otieno
and his girlfriend, Mercy Okinyi, had an altercation at a popular Siaya
entertainment joint on November 30, 2021. After the quarrel, Okinyi boarded
the suspects’ vehicle and they sped off, but Otieno, who was in the company of
his brother, opted to pursue them with his motorcycle. Otieno is said to have attempted
to bring the vehicle to a halt but the occupants ignored his advances and
rammed his motorcycle from the back. “As they approached Sigomere
trading centre, the motorbike caught up with the vehicle and overtook it.
Determined to get his girl back from the two men, the deceased together with
his brother flagged down the vehicle but the driver had no intention to
stop,” the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said in a statement. “He accelerated and hit the
motorbike from the back, tossing the pillion passenger to a nearby ditch and
the deceased on the road.” The two later alighted from the
vehicle and moved the deceased’s body on the road in an effort to stage an
accident. They ran him over multiple times before speeding off. “The deceased’s brother who was
tossed into the ditch did not die. He only faked his death to escape the wrath
of the vicious men, who killed his brother in cold blood,” said the DCI. “The badly shaken victim who
thanked God for saving his life listened from the ditch as the vehicle run over
his brother’s body several times, before it finally left.” Sleuths however realized, after
arriving on the scene, that the accident had falsely been staged by the
culprits. Their vehicle, en route to Nairobi, would later be stopped by police. “A team of homicide detectives
drawn from the Headquarters Homicide branch and Scenes of Crime personnel
subjected the vehicle to clinical forensic analysis and collected several
samples for examination,” the DCI said. “The results of the tests from
the DCI forensic lab indeed confirmed that the vehicle ran over the body of the
deceased severally, after traces of the deceased’s brain matter and DNA was
found beneath the vehicle.”  While pronouncing judgment at the
Siaya High Court, Justice R. E. Aburili stated that the court was convinced
beyond reasonable doubt that the two were indeed guilty of murder.