 A U.S. judge sentenced the wife of imprisoned
Mexican drug kingpin Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman to three years in
prison on Tuesday, after she pleaded guilty to helping the Sinaloa drug cartel. Before her sentencing in a federal court in
Washington, Emma Coronel Aispuro, 32, pleaded with U.S. District Judge Rudolph
Contreras to show her mercy. "With all due respect, I address you
today to express my true regret for any and all harm that I may have done, and
I ask that you and all the citizens of this country forgive me," she said
in Spanish through an interpreter. She added that she feared the judge might
find it difficult to forgive her because she is Guzman's wife. "Perhaps
for this reason you feel there is a need for you to be harder on me, but I pray
that you do not do that," she added. Coronel pleaded guilty in June to
three counts of conspiring to distribute illegal drugs, conspiring to launder
money and engaging in financial dealings with the Sinaloa drug cartel. Federal prosecutors on Tuesday asked that a
four-year prison term be imposed on Coronel, adding that she would be
forfeiting $1.5 million (Ksh. 168.75 million) as part of her sentence. "While the overall effect of the
defendant's conduct was significant, the defendant's actual role was a minimal
one. The defendant acted primarily in support of her husband," federal
prosecutor Anthony Nardozzi said. He noted that after her arrest, she
"quickly accepted responsibility for her criminal conduct." Coronel, a U.S.-born former beauty queen who
married Guzman while she was a teenager, was arrested at Dulles International Airport
outside Washington in February. She and Guzman have nine-year-old twin
daughters together. As part of her plea agreement with
prosecutors, Coronel admitted to acting as a courier between Guzman and other
members of the Sinaloa cartel while he was being held in Mexico's Altiplano
prison following his 2014 arrest. Guzman used those communications to plan his
2015 escape from the prison, through an underground tunnel built by the cartel
leading to the shower in his cell. The drug lord was recaptured in January 2016
and extradited one year later to the United States. He was convicted in February 2019 of drug
trafficking, conspiracy, kidnapping, murder and other charges, and was later
sentenced to life in prison. Coronel's attorney on Tuesday stressed that
she was swept into the world of drug trafficking while still a minor, and
deserved mercy. "She met Joaquin Guzman when she was a
minor. She was 17 years old, and she married him on her 18th birthday,"
said Jeffrey Lichtman, a defense attorney who also represented Guzman in his
U.S. trial three years ago. Lichtman added that Coronel now finds herself
in danger, noting that anonymous law enforcement sources told news media that
she was cooperating with the government. "I'm not sure that she could ever go back
home," he said. Contreras said that he took her background
into consideration when weighing the sentence, as well as the fact that she
will be the sole caretaker for her children due to her husband's life sentence.  "Good luck to you," he told her as
the hearing concluded. "I hope that you raise your twins in a different
environment than you've experienced today."