 Yesterday the world
marked International WorWorld Healthcare Day the theme being leave no one
behind, but access to quality and affordable healthcare still remains out of
reach for most Kenyans. As one of the key pillars
of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda, realizing affordable healthcare should,
in essence, have been given focus by the regime but cases of Kenyans being
detained in public hospitals over their inability to clear medical bills are still alarmingly
on the rise. According to Health CAS
Mercy Mwangangi, who was speaking on the Monday Report show, Kenya’s journey to
affordable healthcare has been difficult but the country is gradually making improved progress and heading in the right direction. “The country is doing well.
Just this year we actually concluded the UHC policy framework so we have a guiding
framework up until 2030 that is going to lay the foundation of where
governments should invest, where the private sector should invest,” Mwangangi said. The CS also reiterated that
the government has made significant investments in terms of opening more
hospitals and appointing more health practitioners in order to make healthcare more
affordable and accessible to Kenyans. “When we look at the
legislative framework. Right now we have the NHIF bill that hopefully will get
presidential enactment so we are good there. When we look at infrastructure when
we do a simple count if we look at 1963 to now we have more healthcare
facilities. It means Kenyans are traveling fewer distances to get health,” she
said. “When we look at the software
we have more doctors present, basically all cadres have seen an upsurge in
terms of development and availability of health facilities and that is a good
thing.” In terms of mental
health, the CAS says that Kenya, through heard-earned lessons, has seen the
need to invest in the area and offer counseling support to all Kenyans who might need
it. “In the recent past, we
have included medicine, Medicine that actually touches on mental health some that
are new and are much effective so we are expanding and we are growing and that
has been an area of progress. In terms of
affordability, the CS similarly argues that healthcare is now financially within the
reach of most Kenyans owing to the government's urgency to prioritize it for Kenyans. “I must say on one front
there are positive things but it is sort of a mixed picture. In terms of the
poor in the community, mothers can now access kill delivery service through the
LINDA mama program,” she said.  “Our children who are
under five should not pay for any healthcare at a private facility. When we
look at people with disabilities we have been able to provide for them insurance services
through NHIF.” The covid-19 pandemic, the CAS, says has been a fresh challenge that has forced the government to invest and put in place initiatives to deal with such cases in the future. 