 The growing issue of plastic pollution in the world’s oceans
is affecting coastal marine life, transporting many species to areas of the
open ocean, surprising researchers. A group of U.S. and Canadian marine and environmental
scientists were amazed to find that some species are thriving on plastic trash
floating in the Pacific Ocean. The team discovered oceanic barnacles and crabs living
alongside coastal barnacles and anemones. “We expected to find oceanic marine species that have
adapted on plastics, but we were absolutely surprised to discover coastal
marine species as well,” said Linsey Haram, a research associate with the
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center in Edgewater, Maryland. It is not known how some coastal marine life managed to get
out into the ocean, added Haram, the lead author of a recent report on the
findings in the journal Nature Communications. “They may already be out there settling on the plastics, but
most likely they are being rafted or transported from the coast on floating
debris,” she told VOA. The study focused on the Great Pacific Garbage Patch located
between Hawaii and California. The massive garbage patch, which is over 1.5
million square kilometers, is mostly made up of plastic waste, big and small. The debris includes massive quantities of tiny plastic
fragments, along with water bottles, toothbrushes and abandoned fishing gear
that are drawn into the patch by ocean currents called gyres. The report notes the plastic can remain in the gyres for
years. “They come into the center [of the gyres] where the water is
relatively stationary,” explained Amy Uhrin, chief scientist of the Marine
Debris Program at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in
Washington. The majority of the garbage comes from the Pacific Rim and the West
Coast of North America, she said. The size of the patch can change depending on the wind and
ocean currents, Uhrin told VOA in an interview. The Ocean Voyages Institute in Sausalito, California, which
works to clean up trash in the ocean, provided plastic samples for the
research. “We’ve had a large sailing cargo ship with a crane hoist
tons of trash from the patch onto the deck of the vessel, especially the very
harmful elements like plastic fishing nets that still catch and kill whales,
dolphins and turtles,” Ocean Voyages founder and President Mary Crowley said. The results from the samples provided the researchers with
some food for thought. “What has been most eye-opening is that the coastal marine
species were not only thriving but reproducing,” Haram said. However, there are many questions still unanswered. “How do you survive being on piece of plastic in the middle
of the ocean?” asks Greg Ruiz, a marine ecologist with the Smithsonian’s
Environmental Research Center and a contributor to the report. “The coastal species may be creating their own ecosystem on the
plastic debris that allows for microorganisms and algae to grow and essentially
function as a food chain,” Ruiz said. “Fish and bird waste in the water may
also be contributing nutrients.” “We also want to figure out how the coastal and oceanic
species are interacting since they are competing for limited space on the
objects,” Haram said. “They could be using each other as a source of food.” There is concern coastal hitchhikers could become invasive
species. “We want to know if other coastal marine life is on
plastics in all of the five main ocean gyres worldwide,” Haram said.  Ruiz added, “we’re concerned that coastal organisms from
different regions could form colonies and spread disease to other marine life,
including fish.”