 The government is likely to roll out COVID-19
booster shots in January to prevent severe COVID-19 related hospitalization. Acting Director General of Health Dr. Patrick Amoth on Wednesday stated that
this has been arrived at following observation that only five out of 15 COVID-19
patients in critical condition across the country have been fully vaccinated. This as the government strives to ensure 10
million Kenyans are vaccinated by the end of the year. Barely a fortnight, after the government
ruled out the possibility of COVID-19 booster shots for those who have already
been fully vaccinated, it now seems that they could become a reality early
2022. “About 67% of the
population admitted in critical care are not vaccinated, 5 are fully
vaccinated. So even without an additional shot, you can see the protection
accorded either with a single shot or two shots of the vaccine offering you
close to almost 70% protection,” said Dr. Amoth. The Chairman of the COVID-19 vaccine and
vaccination task force Dr. Willis Akhwale pointed out that the government is
currently utilising the already available vaccines to inoculate unvaccinated Kenyans
before considering booster shots. “Yes, we’re going
to recommend booster shots, and specific guidelines will be given as we begin the
New Year,” said Dr. Akhwale. For now, he says the government will continue
with sensitization aimed at attaining the 10 million Kenyans mark vaccinated
before the end of the year. “Before yesterday
we did a record 154,000 vaccinations on a single day, we had projected that that’s
what we would be doing in December so we have attained that…now we know our
projection is 10 million, we are now at 9.2 million, if we all take the measures
and the appeal we will make it,” stated Dr. Akhwale. Dr. Amoth added: “You
have seen it in the train stations, bus stops, boda boda riders’ shade,
markets, churches…we have gone ahead to ensure that we avail the vaccine to the
people instead of using only a fixed post vaccination strategy.” Kenya has received over 20 million doses of
different vaccines from various nations as part of donations.  With that, the fight against the virus in the
country has intensified with the Ministry of Health officials on high alert.