 Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga has promised to reform the sugar sector in the Western and Nyanza regions to match continental markets. Odinga, while speaking in Awendo, Migori County on Thursday, stated that leasing the sugar companies to private investors as recommended by the Council of Governors (CoG) is not the best solution to the collapsing industries. He explained how a task force spearheaded by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya went on a quest to identify the key problems affecting the sector. “Oparanya na wenzake walirecommend mambo ya leasing hizi kampuni kwa wafanyibiashara wa kibinafsi,” he stated. “Hizi kampuni zinaweza kendelezwa na hata watu wetu. Sony kwa mfano inaweza kendelea vile inaendelea sasa chini ya usimamizi wetu hapa. Sioni sababu gani iwe leased. Inaweza kubaki vivo hivyo.” Odinga stated that with the government working together with stakeholders to oversee good management of the companies by increasing the industries’ competitiveness, the sugar industry in the region would prosper without the need to lease them. “Kama wanaweza kufuata hii mtindo wamefuata hadi leo, kuendeleza mambo yao vizuri, kampuni inapata faida, wakulima wanalipwa kwa saa, hakuna haja ya serikali kufanya leasing  ya Sony,” he noted. Odinga outlined key problems affecting major sugar public companies such as Sony, Chemelil, Mumias and Nzoia to include; mismanagement, corruption, lack of markets for produce and increased losses leading to their closure. The former premier further exuded confidence in the local empowerment of farmers emphasizing that only through government empowerment and their own sacrifice and dedication to doing better would the industries flourish. “Nimeambia wasimamizi hawa wasitegemee serikali kila saa italeta pesa. Ati hasara ikikuja pesa itatoka kwa Treasury,” he said. “Wafanyikazi wafanye kazi kwa bidii isikuwe kila saa ni kutegea kampuni ikicollapse serikali itatoa peasa kwa Treasury; hiyo ndiyo attitude hatutaki watu waendelee nayo.” Citing his own example as a businessman who profited from the sugar industries when they were flourishing, Odinga explained the need to extend the market to meet continental standards. “Mimi ni mfanyibiashara na niko na kampuni huko Kisumu. Nilikuwa nategemea hizo kampuni huko Kisumu kwa mambo ya Molasses. Hiyo kampuni imekwama kwa sababu hakuna molasses sababu kampuni zote huko zimelala,” he explained. Odinga hinted at an expansion of the Sony Sugar company from the current crushing capacity of 50,000 tons per day to 100,000 tones.