 Deputy President William Ruto has continued
his public criticism of the bid by his rivals to amend the Political Parties
Act claiming it will result in the country having a puppet leader. The DP was speaking in Garissa Township on
Wednesday during a tour of the region as he continued to push his agenda and
solicit support ahead of the 2022 general elections slated for August 10. According to DP Ruto, should the
constitutional changes be enacted, Kenya will have a marionette for a President
who will only be answerable to a few wealthy individuals and not the people of
Kenya. “You have started another scheme that you
want to select for us a puppet who serves the interest of a few rich people so
that you can install him to run the affairs of a nation to the detriment of
millions of Kenyans,” Ruto said. “We are telling you, the people of Kenya,
will not accept a puppet president that serves the interest of a few rich
people. The people of Kenya will elect their president who serves the interest
of every Kenyan irrespective of their financial status, the community they come
from or their religion because we believe in a united country.” According to the deputy president, the whole
plan is just a plight to divide the nation by renewing the Building Bridges
Initiative (BBI) and it should not be prioritized, instead efforts should be
directed towards bettering the country's economy. “We want to tell you the people of Kenya are
united in a national political dispensation and we will not allow you to divide
the people of Kenya or install a puppet president who will serve the interests
of a few,” he added. The DP similarly added that despite efforts
by his rivals, it is the people of Kenya who will elect into office a president
they feel resonates with them and understands their plight as
Kenyans. “Tunawaambia watajua hawajui kwa sababu Wakenya
wataamua kiongozi wao na rais ambaye atashugulikia Wakenya wote bila ya kujali
ati maskini au tajiri ni nani na kwa sabau tunataka umoja katika taifa letu la
Kenya,” he stated. The DP has been very vocal about his opposition
of the BBI push in recent weeks following utterances by President Uhuru
Kenyatta on Jamhuri Day when he labelled the initiative as a “deferred dream.”  Ruto has however maintained, throughout his
addresses, that it is not a priority for Kenyans and that focus should be on
improving Kenya's economy.