 The number of new coronavirus infections in
Kenya has for the first time since the lifting of the dusk-to-dawn curfew in
October 2021 crossed the World Health Organization's (WHO) risk limit of ten per
cent. With the
first three cases of the fast spreading Omicron variant detected in the country
on Wednesday, experts reckon that the strain could end up becoming the most
dominant variant of the disease especially if people continue to become
complacent with ongoing vaccination efforts. “We have
detected the Omicron virus and it was a matter of when, not if. We are
reaching out to other countries to understand it more but what we know is that
it is highly transmissible,” Dr. Willis Akhwale, the Chairman of the National
COVID-19 Vaccine Taskforce, said on the JK Live show. “It is very
likely that it will become the dominant variant globally and this for us is
therefore a warning that we must get back to the basics such as social
distancing and wearing masks.” Dr. Akhwale
however noted that reports from other countries that have been hit by the new
strain show protection, albeit little, for people who have already received double
doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. “The
information that we are getting is that persons fully vaccinated are protected.
The protection is not as effective with the number of doses issued. We have
seen reports of reduced protection even with two doses and therefore that
starts pointing to the need of booster doses,” he said. “This is
something the Ministry of Health has given priority to and we will announce the
measures regarding the booster doses in coming days.” By December
14, 2021, the taskforce boss claims, Kenya recorded close to 145,000 vaccinations
in a single day, alluding progress is being made but more needs to be done to
address complacency witnessed in some parts of the country. “The
vaccination rates in Western and Nyanza have remained low despite high
population density and a lot of that has to do with disinformation and
misconception especially around the issue of fertility but this vaccine has no
impact on fertility,” he said. Dr. Akhwale
also highlighted that the national government had enlisted the help of
counties, who employ local champions, to create awareness on the
importance of getting vaccinated. He also
similarly revealed that the government was in talks with vernacular radio
stations and telecommunication companies in order to ensure the sensitization
message reaches as many Kenyans as possible, especially during the festive
season when many Kenyans usually travel upcountry. Despite not
outright stating if the surge in new cases will lead to the restoration of a
government-enforced lockdown, Dr. Akhwale hinted that that could very well be
on the cards if extra care is not taken. “If it
reaches a threshold that those measures have to be taken they will be taken and
that is why we want to appeal to Kenyans. Vaccination works and it is the only
way to avoid it,” he stated.