2022 presidential hopeful Raila Odinga has reiterated his commitment to conceding defeat should he lose his fifth attempt at clinching the country’s top job. Raila who has contested the results of three other elections in 2007, 2013 and 2017 will be up against among other top contenders, Deputy President William Ruto, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka as well as Governor Alfred Mutua. The ODM leader, who described himself as a democrat during an interview with Citizen TV on Wednesday,  said accepting defeat if he loses in a fair duel goes without question. “As a democrat, you must accept to win or lose, you see losing is part of the game, if you lose fairly in a contest you have to accept,” Raila said. “I’m a sportsman I used to play soccer, I played the league and I knew if you lose you could cede, asiyekubali kushindwa, sio mshindani, so nobody should have any worries about that,” During the same interview, the ODM leader remained non-committal on whether he will only be president for one term. “Why not?” Raila said, in response to whether he plans to be a one-term president on account of his age. “Ask US President Joe Biden, he is one year older than me,” “Why not?” Rail said yet again, when he was pressed to answer whether he would run for a second term should he clinch the top job. “ The former Prime Minister now believes that Kenya, the 12 wealthiest African nation, needs his input as a career engineer in order to take off and possibly reach other nations which were in a similar economic state in 1963. “Look at these different presidencies, our first president was an anthropologist, he gave us the Kenyanisation of the Kenyan economy,” Raila said. “The second president was a teacher who laid a lot of emphasis on Education.. you can see the Nyayo milk program and so on,” Raila went on to say that Kenya under President Kibaki, an economist, got the vision 2030 and an economic upturn. “Now we have a fourth president who is a political economist, and he has moved the country to the point of take-off… if you look at the infrastructural development that he has done, it is big,it has moved the country to the point of take-off,” Raila said. According to Raila, the country now needs an engineer who will ‘engineer’ the country from where is sits currently, to the take-off. “So that Kenya can leapfrog and reach the countries that were in a similar state in 1963 when Kenya became a sovereign State,” he added.