Dennis Itumbi's lawyers have asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to look into a case in which unidentified people allegedly harassed him while he was in the hospital. In a statement addressed to the DCI by Adrian Kamotho and Njenga Advocates on Thursday, the law firm urged the DCI to take action as their client was facing life-threatening danger which they said could bar his quick recovery. “We are instructed that on 29th December 2021, persons who presented themselves as DCI officers visited the medical facility where our client is recuperating at the ICU seeking among other things, to obtain undefined statements,” the statement reads. “There can be no justification as to why our client, a victim of heinous atrocities is being trailed to his hospital bed in absolute disregard of his health and legal rights. Our client is a law-abiding citizen and duly entitled to recuperate without interference, intrusion or snooping,” added the note. The letter also implied that the people claiming to be from a higher authority tried to force Itumbi to sign some strange papers. “The said officers intimated that they had instructions from the highest office to have the medical process interrupted, in order to have our client sign some mysterious documents. Nothing can be more callous!” the law firm wrote. The firm recorded statements at the DCI headquarters in Kiambu Road through its lead lawyer Adrian Kamotho, who was accompanied by Boniface Magoha, a key witness in Itumbi's case. Magoha was the taxi driver who initially found Itumbi and took him to the hospital. Itumbi who is the Digital Strategist for Deputy President William Ruto’s led UDA party, was allegedly accosted and abducted along Kiambu Road on 23rd December 2021 and has since been admitted to the hospital. A section of leaders allied to DP Ruto has been claiming that Itumbi was abducted for criticizing four high-ranking government officials. The leaders, in a joint statement read by Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika at a press conference on Friday 24th, said Itumbi was bundled into a vehicle and tortured as the unknown perpetrators drove around Nairobi. “The criminal squad handcuffed him from behind and tied his limbs with a rope. They told him why they were arresting him and added that he will be interrogated by the boss, who he will have to support,” Senator Kihika said during the presser.