 The European Commission on Tuesday (Dec 21)
adopted rules that will make the European Union Covid-19 certificate valid for
travel nine months after the completion of the primary vaccination schedule. The proposal comes as several EU states
introduce additional requirements on travellers in a bid to reduce the spread
of the Omicron coronavirus variant. EU Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders told
Reuters the EU Commission was against additional requirements and was
assessing the measures. The new rules will be binding on the 27 EU
states from Feb 1. The rule can be blocked by a qualified
majority of EU governments or a simple majority of European Parliament members,
but officials have said there is sufficient support for it. The rule replaces a non-binding
recommendation the EU Commission put forward in November. Once the rule is effective, EU states will be
obliged to let fully vaccinated travellers with a valid pass access their
territory. However, as an exception justified by a
deteriorating situation, they could still impose further requirements, such as
negative tests or quarantines, as long as they are proportionate. Seven EU states are currently requiring fully
vaccinated travellers from other EU countries to also show a negative Covid-19
test upon arrival, measures some see as damaging the credibility of the EU
pass. The states are Italy, Greece, Ireland,
Portugal, Latvia, Cyprus and Austria. "We prefer to use for the free movement
in Europe only the certificate without additional measures," Mr Reynders
said. He noted that the additional requirements
could be justified by concerns caused by the spread of the Omicron variant, but
governments had to prove they were proportionate and necessary. The Commission was still assessing the
measures, Mr Reynders said, adding that infringements proceedings for
time-limited restrictions made little sense. The national measures are mostly limited to
the Christmas period, although Italy's extend until the end of January. The new rules apply only for international
travel. Governments will be able to have a different
duration of the Covid-19 pass for access to events or indoor activities within
their territories. After a booster shot, the validity of the
Covid-19 pass will be extended further without a set limit, because at the
moment there is not enough information about the duration of protection from
boosters, an EU official said.  A primary vaccination schedule in the EU for
the virus is currently composed of two shots of vaccines produced by
Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca and Moderna, or a single jab of the Johnson &
Johnson vaccine.