 There
has been uproar over what seems to be Cabinet Secretaries actively
participating in political activities contrary to the Constitution. Lawyer
Bobby Mkangi, who was a member of the Constitution making committee of experts,
says Cabinet Secretaries taking part in political activities erode public
confidence in the offices they hold and contradict the Constitution. This
comes as the Azimio la Umoja movement launch is the latest political event that
was graced by a high number of cabinet secretaries. Seven
Cabinet Secretaries attended ODM leader Raila Odinga's formal launch of his
presidential candidature. Present
at the Kasarani event were CSs Ukur Yatani (Treasury), Sicily Kariuki (Water),
Keriako Tobiko (Environment), John Munyes (Petroleum and mining), Peter Munya (Agriculture),
Eugene Wamalwa (Defence) and Joe Mucheru (ICT). Legal
pundits are faulting involvement of the CSsin political activities. “A
cabinet secretary who wants to engage in politics, no one forces them to serve
in compulsion, they can resign,” said Mkangi. Section
23(2) of the Leadership and Integrity Act says: “An appointed State officer shall
not engage in any political activity that may compromise or be seen to
compromise the political neutrality of the office subject to any laws relating
to elections.” “If
for instance offices of ICT and Internal security, they are the DNA of
elections...the people who hold those offices must respect the office and build
confidence with the public,” added Mkangi. But
Cabinet Secretaries may conveniently cite the same Leadership and Integrity Act
section 23 (1) which appears to give them an exception in terms of
participation in political activities. It
states: “An appointed State officer, other than a cabinet secretary or a member
of a county executive committee shall not act as an agent for, or further the
interests of a political party or candidate in an election; or manifest support
for or opposition to any political party or candidate in an election.” Interior
CS Dr. Fred Matiang’i has attended events led by Odinga in the larger Kisii
region and endorsed his candidature. Agriculture
CS Peter Munya accompanied Odinga in his tour of Meru, Tharaka Nithi and Embu
counties, while Water CS Sicily Kariuki campaigned for Odinga's fifth stab at
the presidency in her home county of Nyandarua. The
cabinet secretaries have in their defence cited article 38 of the Constitution
of Kenya on the Bill of Rights which states: “Every citizen is free to make
political choices  which includes to form
or participate in forming a political party, participate in its activities and campaigning
for its cause.” The
CSs argue that they have complied with the law since they are not officials of
any political party as per article 77(2) of the Constitution which prohibits
appointed State officers from holding office in a political party. But
constitutional experts like Bobby mMkangi say the reason for having Cabinet
Secretaries outside Parliament was to detach them from politics and boost
service delivery to the people.  “The
reason why Kenyans wanted to excuse Cabinet ministers from jukwaa constituency
politics because a minister being an MP it was hard to juggle the two balls,”
said Mkangi.