In less than a day, Kenya and the whole world in general will say goodbye to the year that was 2021 and usher in 2022. The world has been gradually recovering from the effects of Covid-19 which has crippled various sectors on many fronts and Kenya’s political scene has not been an exception. With the 2022 August polls fast-approaching, intriguing political battles and campaigns have gradually been taking shape. Politicians have been laying down their agenda and forming strategic coalitions ahead of the big day next year and now would be the most opportune time to look back at the most memorable political quotes that made headlines in the year that was. Below we revisit the ten most memorable political quotes of 2021, with special focus on sound bites that have laid the foundation for many of Kenya’s political bigwigs ahead of the 2022 polls. 1. “I do hereby accept to present myself as a Presidential candidate at the Presidential Election on the 9th of August 2022.” - ODM leader Raila Odinga Despite conducting what on paper appeared to be national campaigns for his Presidential bid, Odinga remained coy, for most of the year, on whether he would contest for the presidency at the 2022 polls. In early December, for instance, Odinga was officially endorsed to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta by Mt. Kenya tycoons, under the banner of the Mount Kenya Foundation. The former Prime Minister chose not to accept the nomination until the Azimio la Umoja convention, slated for December 10, 2021 was held. On the said date, Odinga publicly made his intention to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta, in a packed Kasarani stadium, much to the jubilation of Kenyans and politicians alike. 2. “Leadership needs wisdom, which is mostly brought about by age. You can start campaigning early with speed but before long you are tired and the person you branded old will come at his pace and overtake you.” – President Uhuru Kenyatta President Uhuru Kenyatta made the aforementioned remarks as he conferred City Status to Nakuru Municipality on December 1, 2021 in what many assume was an indirect campaign for Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga and a toned-down attack on Deputy President William Ruto. The President specifically reprimanded Ruto for his youthful eagerness to succeed him but at the same time, brought to the fore the age agenda ahead of next year’s polls especially since Odinga and Ruto, the two frontrunners to succeed Kenyatta, have a 12-year-age difference between them. 3. ‘‘Mi sipangwingwi!” – Deputy President William Ruto On November 29, 2021, DP Ruto underscored that he will not be cowered by what he labeled as forces working to deter his presidential bid. Ruto called on his followers to remain vigilant at the polls next year while calling out his opponents for forming tribal political parties. The DP rode on the “Sipangwingwi” wave, made famous by popular Gengetone artist X-ray, and he did it right when it was hot and not days later when he would be accused of being old and out of touch. 4. “Mezeni wembe ama mjinyonge!” – Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho The Interior  PS made the utterances in November 2021 when he told off individuals calling for his ouster over claims that he was publicly engaging in succession politics contrary to his constitutional mandate. The now viral attack was directed towards DP Ruto’s allies, with the PS arguing that he was legally entitled to speak and participate in politics. His controversial remarks were met by mixed reactions from Kenyans and politicians alike. 5. “It is their democratic right to be in OKA but I want to tell Musalia and Wetang’ula     that if they continue to remain out there, they will remain out of government.” - Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa The Defence CS called out OKA Principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula on December 14, 2021 during the unveiling of a fresh coalition of Luhya leaders dubbed Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K). The freshly minted party consequently moved to endorse ODM leader Raila Odinga’s fifth stab at the Presidency. According to CS Wamalwa, the duo’s failure to back Odinga’s Azimio la Umoja vehicle could see them miss out on being part of the next government after all is set and done at the 2022 polls. 6.“Chama ni UDA, form ni Hustler na mpango ni bottom-up.” – Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru The remarks were made by Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru in November after she jumped ship from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee party to DP Ruto’s UDA, after a meeting with the DP at his official Karen residence. The move, Waiguru says, was informed by the Mount Kenya region’s dissatisfaction with how Jubilee had been run over the last five years. Prior to this, Waiguru had been publicly critical of Kenyatta and Interior PS Karanja Kibicho over allegations that they have attempted to lock her out of Mount Kenya politics. Before her move, Waiguru purported that she had even been sidelined from organizing the Mashujaa Day celebrations which was held in her home turf of Kirinyaga. 7.“You must stop addressing Kenyan people like your kids.” – Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro The outspoken MP’s words came after Interior CS Karanja Kibicho rudely told off DP Ruto’s allies when they called for his ouster in late November over claims that he had abandoned his constitutional docket. In his scathing attack, Njoro reminded Kibicho not to underestimate the power of the Kenyan people; arguing that they will decide the persons who will form the next government next year. Nyoro consequently insisted that the CS should proceed with moderation or he will have to swallow his pride if he fails to be a part of the next government. 8. “I don’t think you can describe Jimi Wanjigi as Raila’s competition.” – ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna The ODM Sec-Gen made the aforementioned remarks on December 9, 2021 when he dismissed claims that billionaire businessman Jimi Wanjigi’s public intention to vie for the Presidency under the ODM ticket, was putting Raila Odinga’s chances in jeopardy. Sifuna vehemently reiterated that the two individuals should not even be put in the same sentence and that Odinga’s probable rival for the presidency was DP William Ruto, labeling the journey to state house as a two horse race. 9. The most corrupt woman in the history of Kenya is Charity Kaluki Ngilu – Garissa Township MP Aden Duale The Garissa MP made the retaliatory remarks following earlier utterances by Kitui Governor Ngilu, in which she identified Deputy President William Ruto as the biggest endorser of graft in the country. To further add to his response, Duale referenced Ngilu’s past ouster from the Lands, Housing and Urban Development docket by President Uhuru Kenyatta during his first term in office, barely two years after handing her the reigns. This, Duale argued, was a clear indication of Ngilu’s inability to successfully lead state departments, as such she should turn her attentions elsewhere and not at the DP. 10.  You are hereby commanded to apprehend George Kinoti and to bring him before this court to be dealt with according to the law – The High Court The order issued by the High Court on December 14, 2021 called for the arrest of Directorate of Criminal Investigations’ boss George Kinoti over allegations that he had failed to adhere to a court order that decreed he should return confiscated firearms to billionaire businessman Jimi Wanjigi. Kinoti had also been instructed to hand himself over at Kamiti Maximum Prison to serve a four year jail sentence but the sleuths’ boss opted to ignore it as well in favour of petitioning the order. After an unsuccessful attempt, the DCI boss was finally spared blushes when the order was later squashed, further highlighting how the judiciary’s mandate has been overlooked by political bigwigs in the year that was.