 Kenya Power board on Friday sent five general managers on 60 days leave to pave way for forensic audits and the review of supply chain function. In a statement by the KPLC Managing  Director and acting CEO Rosemary Oduor, the five were laid off pending investigations. The five managers suspended included; Eng. Peter Machasio (GM, Infrastructure Development), Eng. Peter Njenga (GM, Regional Coordination), Eng. Charles Mwaura (GM, Network Management), Robert Mugo (GM, ICT), Imelda Bore (GM, Legal Services and regulatory services). Those now installed in acting capacity are; Eng. Kennedy Owino (AG. GM, Infrastructure Development), Eng. Geoffrey Muli (AG. GM, Regional Coordination), Eng. Raphael Ndolo (AG. GM, Network Management), Titus Kitavi (AG. GM, ICT), Jude Ochieng (AG. GM, Legal services and regulatory affairs), Eng. Ariel Mutegi (AG. Regional Manager, Nairobi). The move came after a crackdown by the Energy Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma on Friday that saw her visit Roysambu and Industrial area power installation stations where she found more than 10,000 faulty transformers. During the surprise visit, the CS was infuriated by the management as she failed to understand how such a number of transformers were idling there with a lot of places in the country facing a shortage of the same. She further questioned why more were still being procured when the available ones could be repaired. “I have seen over 10,000 transformers which are not functioning. Some of them can be repaired and I have actually given instructions and I will be receiving a plan for repair by Monday,” she stated. CS Juma also promised to look into procurement to ensure quality equipment is supplied. “I will be looking to have conversations with the suppliers because there could be concerns in terms of quality of the meters coming to us,” CS Juma noted. Since CS Juma’s assumption of office in September 2021, about 59 procurement officials are reported to have been suspended as part of the ministry’s effort to streamline operations. Consequently, CS Juma has vowed to ensure that the country's electric bills are regulated as part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive. “It is important that we respond to mandate provided to us. We are supposed to provide reliable clean and affordable power,” she said.