 Raila Odinga Junior, son of ODM
leader Raila Odinga, has spoken out about his father’s political path
towards the 2022 general elections. Junior narrated how the road to his father’s political supremacy has been
riddled with many challenges but he managed to beat them all by remaining
steadfast. While referring to all the four instances
when Odinga has battled for the country’s top seat and failed, Junior said that
it serves a big deal to remain persistent and hopeful. “For us as a family, we have been in politics
and we have grown in politics; what we say is if at first, you don’t succeed,
try…try and try again,” he told Citizen Digital on the sidelines of a Mt. Kenya
Foundation luncheon held in honour of his father on Wednesday. While comparing his father’s line of politics
in the ‘90s and now, Raila Junior sternly expressed confidence that the current
Odinga is involved, consultative and willing to work with everyone regardless
of their political affiliations or the regions. “The mood is very different from before; we
have discussed with a lot of leaders and engaged in consultations and it is
more involving in terms of not leaving anyone out the equation,” he said. He cited the 2018 handshake between President
Uhuru Kenyatta and Odinga saying that it has laid a new foundation for his
father’s politics and it remains among the nation’s best decisions made in a
bid to unite the country. “There was a lot of tension in the country
and the two leaders took it upon themselves to sit down, discuss what was
happening in the country, discuss how to involve everyone not just people from
one region or the other,” he explained. Consequently, Raila Junior spoke on the Mount
Kenya Foundation endorsement of his father saying that it was key in his
political path as it served to show inclusivity and consideration for all. “Odinga has not gone behind to undermine
leaders, to undermine governors, to undermine businessmen, to undermine most of
the people in the region. He has actually consulted with them and it shows how
he is an all-inclusive leader, that he can work with anyone,” Raila Junior stated. He further revealed his expectations of the
forthcoming event at Kasarani saying that it will serve to unite all Kenyans
for a common purpose.  “Friday is a big event at Kasarani and we are
urging the public to come up in huge numbers and it is one of those surprises
that we are waiting to see what happens,” Raila Junior said.