 Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi
has responded to President Uhuru Kenyatta over his take on leaders seeking to
succeed him on account of youthfulness. “If people are worried that the young people are running very
fast, then they must wake up to the reality that the young people are tired of
us going too slowly,” said Mudavadi. This comes after President Kenyatta said next year’s State
House succession race was a marathon, and not a sprint, scoffing at early
campaigns that have raised political temperatures. In what could be seen as a soft endorsement of ODM leader
Raila Odinga’s presidential bid, President Kenyatta said age was a non-issue in
determining the 5th head of state. “Mkikuja muambiwe huyu ni mzee hafai, ati tunataka kijana,
sijui huyu ako namna hii ama namna ile, mtu anachagua kwa ubongo, uongozi uko
kwa akili,” said the president on December 1, 2021. “Uongozi sio mpira ya kuchezwa kwa kiwanja…uongozi sio sprint,
ni marathon…wewe utakimbia hapa by the time ukifika pale mbele pumzi imeisha,
lakini mzee amekanyanga pole pole akuje akupite bado ukiwa kwa barabara.” Mudavadi also ruled out the possibility of playing
second fiddle in next year's general election. Speaking at the launch of the party's revamped digital
platforms on Thursday, the ANC leader said he is determined to go all the way to the
ballot. This comes amid talks that ODM leader Raila Odinga is planning
to woo the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals to back his presidential bid. “There are deadlines that will come next year about coalitions
and so forth, don’t panic, we will talk to other people, we will want to grow
and widen the net, then inaccordance with IEBC deadlines we will fulfill our
mandate. At that time, we will now all be saying tunaelekea,” he said. Mudavadi’s sentiments were reiterated by his close allies who
asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to support the ANC leader for the presidency. “Akukuja ajue kwamba kuna Captain Musalia, kuna Captain Weta,
kuna Captain Kalonzo, na kuna Captain Gideon Moi,” said Kakamega Senator
Cleophas Malala. “NASA was the idea of Musalia Mudavadi. Wakati Raila alikuja
hapo ndani akatake over, yeye ndiye akakuwa kiongozi. The ANC leader also defended IEBC Chairperson Wafula Chebukati
against what he called intimidation by political leaders, urging him to remain
firm and make independent decisions in the planning for the 2022 election.  “It is the IEBC that is mandated to conduct elections in this
country, and their role must not be hijacked anywhere along the path to the
2022 elections,” he said.