 Two suspects will spend their Christmas
holidays behind bars after the Makadara court ordered them to be detained for 7
days for forgery of logbooks and obtaining credit by fraud. The duo, Timothy Mwangi and Peter Nyaga, were
arrested after detectives discovered that one motor vehicle registration number
and its logbook was registered to more than one vehicle. Along the discovery, the logbook was also discovered
to have been used to secure loans from banks and microfinance institutions
without the owner’s consent. The owner to the said vehicle, Beatrice
Kerubo, reported a case to the DCI claiming her husband was hijacked by a group
of men along the Thika superhighway who demanded that he hands over the keys to
the vehicle immediately. The men, it later emerged, were auctioneers
sent by a microfinance institution to impound the vehicle for defaulting on a
loan. He later inquired with his wife Kerubo
whether she had secured a loan using the vehicle’s logbook, but she was equally
shocked to learn that her logbook had been used to secure a loan yet she still
had her original copy. Upon probe, it was discovered that the two
suspects had used a logbook under vehicle registration number KCU 244A
illegally registered to a Toyota Harrier, to acquire credit of Ksh.876,000 from
Avanzar Financial Solutions.  The car was genuinely registered to a Nissan
Serena owned by Kerubo. They also discovered that the two suspects
had acquired over Ksh.4 million from MyCredit and Bidii Credit limited, using
one logbook. This was after Bidii Credit Limited advanced
Ksh.2.1 Million to Timothy Mwangi on April 20, 2021 and before they collected
the joint ownership logbook from NTSA, the logbook already had been transferred
to someone else. Further investigations into the case revealed
that Mwangi’s accomplice had used the same logbook to secure a facility of Ksh.2.2
Million from MyCredit Limited on May 27, 2021. Their arrest followed an expose by the DCI on
how four other NTSA
officials were suspected to be behind a criminal enterprise
that alters vehicle logbooks and defrauds owners by changing ownership.  "Cybercrime experts based at the DCI
headquarters have since joined their counterparts seconded to the National
Transport and Safety Authority to smoke out the crooked officials at NTSA
behind this high level scam, that has left motorists worried that they could be
driving vehicles already used as collateral to secure loans for shadowy
individuals," stated the DCI.