President Uhuru Kenyatta has called on Kenyans to choose leadership over politics in the forthcoming general election. In his New Year message to the country, the President cautioned Kenyans to resist political populism and instead choose leaders that are ready to make bold decisions. In his final New Year address to the nation as president, Uhuru Kenyatta has picked on three doctrines that he calls the Uhuru Doctrines. For an election year that 2022 is, the president has called for a shift from politics to leadership. “Leadership is about vision; politics is about positions. Leadership is about the next generation; politics is about the next election. And our obsession with politics has only slowed down the realization of our potential as a people,” said Kenyatta. He wants Kenyans to choose leaders that are ready and willing to take bold decisions over politicians keen on populism. A shift from popular decisions to bold decisions. “Kenya must choose the bold path over the popular path. We must choose the critical few who are bold over the trivial majority who are not. And there are examples around the world where the bold triumphed over the popular,” he stated. As Kenyans get ready to pick individuals that will take charge of public affairs and resources, the president hopes Kenyans can tell the difference. "And a politician takes the popular path that pleases everyone, but takes them nowhere. If we are to become a ‘break-out-nation’, we must follow the brave,” added the Head of State. Kenyatta reflects that the country needs to shift from law to justice arguing that Kenyans should not be enslaved by the law but should instead be served by it. "....we must continue to uphold a justice system that restores not one that merely punishes. A system that heals, not one that deepens wounds. A system that seeks to improve the law, not one enslaved by the law. More so because “…the law, without justice, is a national wound without cure” said Kenyatta. The president now has just over seven months to conclude his term, a season his administration will be busy concluding on projects and programmes already ongoing. The president singling a few projects that he hopes will crown his legacy. Four years ago, the president promised the country Universal health coverage where everyone could access quality health services at an affordable rate. The president hopes to make this a reality in 2022. On education, the president hopes that as the new competency-based curriculum graduates to grade six in the New Year, that 10,000 new classrooms will be ready and pave way for transition. Kenyatta’s infrastructure record is just about to be concluded. The president picking out on the Nairobi Expressway is expected to be opened to traffic by April. The Kisumu Mamboleo road, Eldoret Bypass, and Kenol-Marua road project. The president also counted on the conclusion of the Mombasa port road network support project and the James Gichuru-Rironi road in Nairobi and Kiambu counties. On water, the president says Nairobi Metropolitan Service will conclude the Northern Collector Tunnel water project that will double water supply in Nairobi. Even though the cost of electricity is yet to reduce as promised by the president on Jamhuri Day, the president promises to lower the electricity bills by March 2022. "It is my prayer that 2022 will be a year where “…plenty will be found within our borders”. A year where leadership will reign supreme over politics. A year of bold decisions as opposed to popular decisions," he stated.