 Meta Platforms Inc, the
owner of social media network Facebook, is behind a $60 million (approximately Ksh.6.7 billion) deal to acquire
the trademark assets of U.S. regional bank Meta Financial Group, spokespeople
for the companies said on Monday. The
deal underscores how valuable the Meta name has become for the technology giant,
which is betting that its focus on the metaverse - shared digital spaces
accessed via the internet through an array of devices - will pay off handsomely
in the coming years. Meta
Financial had said in regulatory filing on Monday that a Delaware company
called Beige Key LLC agreed to acquire the worldwide rights to its company
names for $60 million in cash. It did not disclose who the owner of Beige Key
was. "Beige
Key is affiliated with us and we have acquired these trademark assets," a
Meta Platforms spokesperson said. A MetaBank spokesperson also confirmed Meta
Platforms' involvement. As well as
offering products through its MetaBank subsidiary including consumer savings,
loans and credit cards, and commercial lending, Meta Financial partners with
institutions including government agencies and financial technology firms to
offer banking services with the aim of bolstering financial inclusion. Facebook
said in October its parent company had changed its name to Meta Platforms. The
tech giant, which has invested heavily in virtual reality and augmented
reality, sees the metaverse as the successor to the mobile internet. Last week, Meta Platforms opened up its
previously invite-only Horizon Worlds app, where users of its Quest virtual
reality headsets can play games and interact as avatars, to over-18 users in
the United States and Canada. The
metaverse concept, which has cropped up on several Silicon Valley companies'
earnings calls and which will require cooperation among tech giants, could be
more than a decade away from being fully realized. The
Meta Platforms spokesperson said the company engaged in discussions with Meta
Financial before Facebook's name change was announced. In
the filing, Meta Financial said it had embarked on a brand strategy review
earlier this year, but the MetaBank spokesperson declined to comment on the
negotiations beyond the contents of the filing.  Meta
Financial's shares were trading 1.5% lower in mid-afternoon trading, giving it
a market capitalization of around $1.74 billion. Meta Platforms was up 1.6%,
valuing it at $933 billion.