 Kenyan-based startup
Enda Sportswear, which produces the first Made in Kenya athletes’ running
shoes, has raised Ksh.113.1 million (USD 1 million) in funding. The funding, led
by an American Venture Capital firm Talanton, will allow Enda to expand its
global brand by boosting its product development and distribution efforts. "We've been working hard to fulfill
orders as thousands of people around the world are discovering our shoes. It is
an exciting time for our company. This is our moment to invest in further growth
and help even more people ‘Run Kenyan’ in 2022," said Enda co-founder and
CEO Navalayo Osembo. “We are thrilled about this investment,” added
a partner at Talanton, Iris Wen. With this investment, Enda aspires to be a top
high-performance running shoe brand by further expanding its product lines and
distribution, aiming to create more jobs and achieve positive social and
spiritual impacts. Co-founded in 2016 by Navalayo
Osembo and Weldon Kennedy, Enda is the first shoe brand proudly Made in
Kenya. The shoes are
designed to give the most from each workout and see one's running improve
consistently. In partnership with a factory in Kilifi known
as Umoja Rubber Products Limited, a team of 42 employees produces between 150 to
300 pairs of shoes per day for the brand. In 2020, Enda sold 7,000 pairs of shoes thus
marking a tenfold increase in sales compared to the year-end in 2019. Enda was named after the Swahili translation
from the word ‘Go’, founded with a mission of bringing Kenyan athletic
greatness to runners everywhere and fueling economic development in Kenya. In pursuit of that mission, they have since
been measuring their impact by supporting the local communities, reducing
environmental impact by creating neutral road running shoes and developing the
economy by creating jobs. Enda believes that running can be more than
just a means to improve physical and mental health but also increase fairness,
justice, and equality around the world, a mission that drives its ‘Run Kenyan’
slogan.