 Transport, Infrastructure, Housing and Urban Development CS James Macharia has said the Express Way idea was born off a dinner meeting attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Cabinet Secretaries and Chinese Company officials. In an interesting narration, CS Macharia imparted that
although the President and his Cabinet Secretaries were on a different tour
to China to discuss matters to do with the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) system, an outlook
of the well-laid-out road system in the Asian nation diverted their attention. “It was back in 2019 and we had been sent to we had been to
China to finalize on issues to do with SGR,” CS Macharia stated while in an interview with Citizen TV on Monday night. “We arrived in the Beijing Airport, then proceeded to
Beijing City where we took about 25 minutes, a very long distance; because the
highway had 6 lanes,” he added. Macharia went further to aver that during the meeting, they
commended the tremendous status of the highway as ‘fantastic’, only to be informed that the same company they were
meeting had done the road. “They told us the road is on their balance sheet, it is their
road; the same company which we had gone to see for the SGR,” Macharia said. Macharia elucidated how they ended up getting the deal from,
the company after expressing an interest to have a similar road in Kenya. “They said they had been to Nairobi whereby the president of
the same company had been stuck in a traffic jam for two and half hours from
JKIA to Nairobi CBD,” said CS Macharia. He added: “So it did not require a lot of convincing for him
to know we have a problem in terms of traffic and that the problem can be
converted into an opportunity.” CS Macharia explained how the Head of State was impressed
with the idea of a Public-Private Partnership deal that would lead to the creation of
the world-class Expressway. “The president was actually quite excited about the idea and
the same night he called the Finance CS Rotich and asked him to join us in
China so that we could discuss the finance modalities of how the PPP could be
done,” Macharia noted. After settling into an agreement with the company, Macharia spelled
out how the company did not hesitate to commence the mega-project towards the
end of the same year.  “They sent a team to do a census of the vehicle passing through
Mombasa Road from JKIA and on that day and counted about 30,000 vehicles. They
fitted it in their financial model and we confirmed it,” he stated. The 27.1-kilometer elevated dual carriageway which has 8-lanes is expected to decongest Mombasa Road and reduce travel time between Mlolongo and Westlands to 20 minutes after completion in March next year.  