 Handshake-leaning Members of Parliament have
accused National Assembly Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi of being partisan in his
ruling suspending the debate on the controversial Political Parties Amendment Bill. The debate went through the second reading in
an acrimonious session as members shouted and raised constant points of orders. However, it was a show of might for the
handshake partners as they trounced their opponents 115 against 68 in passing
the bill in second reading. Minority Leader John Mbadi said the twin
losses by DP Ruto’s camp settles the question on which side has controlling
numbers in the bi-cameral House. “We have been told about 150 members
supporting a particular cause, you can see when we come to floor of this House
the members are hardly 20 and that is why they are making noise,” the Suba South
MP said. He announced that they will discuss as House
leaders to call a special sitting to conclude the bill before the end of the
year. “My colleagues on the other side who have
been boasting of numbers in the streets, today we want to see where are those
numbers,” said Mbadi. Minority Whip Junet Mohamed was also bullish
despite the deputy speaker suspending the debate saying they will pass the bill
once it comes up for the third reading. Junet admitted that the bill has the blessing
of both President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. “If you have numbers don’t shout outside
there, bring your numbers here on the floor of the House. We are going to win
this hands down,” Junet said. Earlier, the TangaTanga troops’ push to stop
the debate on the bill was defeated after Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi ruled
against them. Led by Tharaka MP George Murugara, the
lawmakers put up a spirited effort to block debate on the proposal on
coalitions building in a morning of drama. Murugara rising on a point of order asked Cheboi
to halt debate questioning the constitutionality of the legislative piece. The debate degenerated into a shouting match
pitting pro-Handshake and TangaTanga legislators, spilling to the lounge after
the House adjourned. In a presser, Ruto’s team claimed malice in
the amendments to the parties’ law to benefit Raila’s 2022 bid. Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys
Shollei said, “All they wanted to do was to amend the law so that Azimio can be
a political party. They want to give OKA time to negotiate with Raila Odinga.
If you listen to any of the ODM leaders, they were clear they wanted to anchor
Azimio on the law.” Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro claimed the bill had
nothing to do with the welfare of Kenyans, and it was only meant to help 5
political figures.  The bill now goes back to the Justice and
Legal Affairs committee to consider amendments proposed by various members
before it is brought back to the House for debate.