Samuel Onyango was on target with the lone goal of the contest as Gor Mahia defeated their arch-rivals AFC Leopards 1-0 in a friendly match played at Camp Toyoyo grounds Saturday. The match was planned by the two on Friday after they fell out with the Federation over the latter’s failure to remit grants owed to them by virtue of emerging winners and runners up respectively of the FKF Cup. Gor are claiming Sh 2million from the Federation for their heroics while Leopards are laying claim to Sh 1million. The League match between the two, popularly known as Mashemeji derby was set for today from 3pm at the Thika Stadium but they made good their threat to snub the contest souring the relations with the football management body which has already called for a press briefing on Sunday where they are expected to announce sanctions against the two clubs. At Toyoyo, Onyango scored from a powerful header that swerved past John Oyemba in Leopards goal, thanks to Jules Ulimwengu’s cross from his right foot in the 34th minute. Onyango rose the highest inside Ingwe’s 18-yard box beating defenders Robert Mudenyu and Isaac Kipyegon leaving Oyemba with no chance. Also Read: At the hour mark, Gor Mahia’s Clifton Miheso cut in a brilliant curve from the left but was parried away. Leopards first shot on target flew direct into Salim Njao’s gloves with Peter Thiong’o’s lower shot rolling out. Gor Mahia’s coach Sammy Pamzo Omollo was pleased with his boys’ performance. “Yes, we have played well and got the win which has not been coming in our past matches. It’s a friendly tie today but we have been playing without several players who are injured and a number who have left the club. We just focus on our remaining five matches aiming to finish stronger,” said Omollo. Leopards assistant coach Tom Juma also hailed his players for their performance. “We have used the game(as warm up) for our next matches, gave playing time to our youthful players and I’m impressed. We aim to finish stronger in our remaining matches,” said Juma. Leopards sit third on 44 points while Gor sit eighth on 40 points with five matches to play.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy