World 1500m champion Timothy Cheruiyot will be hoping to continue his red-hot form when he makes his Olympic debut at the Tokyo Games, whose only dent was during the national trials last month. The athlete is set to compete in Tokyo just three weeks after setting a new personal best (PB) over the distance at the Monaco Diamond League some three weeks ago. Cheruiyot was a late inclusion in Kenya’s team for the Olympics after the shock defeat at the trials where he placed fourth, his first loss in the distance in 10 races over two years. The 25-year-old was however handed a lifeline in the team when his compatriot Kamar Etyang who was second at the trials was dropped from the team having not fulfilled the anti-doping requirements. With the winning streak he had kept that included the Diamond League final and World Championships in 2019, to many pundits and indeed himself, Cheruiyot is still the man to watch in the Games. “During the trials I had a hamstring injury in my left foot and that really affected my performance but I have since seen my doctor and I am happy since I have fully recovered,” said Cheruiyot. Also Read: Cheruiyot would immediately bounce back to winning ways, securing back to back Diamond League meeting victories in Stockholm and Monaco within a week. It was in Monaco on July 9 where he produced a sensational 3:28.28 lifetime best to pad his hold on the No.7 spot on the all-time list. “I think attaining a new PB in Monaco has given me a lot of confidence as I head to the Olympics. It is the kind of performance you would wish for ahead of such an important event,” said Cheruiyot. The Olympic Games will provide yet another platform for the unending rivalry between Cheruiyot and Jakob Ingebrigsten, one of the sport’s most precocious talents in recent memory. The Norwegian won the 1500m/5000m double at the 2018 European Championships at just 17 with his PB of 3:28.68 being the eighth-fastest of all time. “I know Jakob is a very strong competitor and at the Olympics it won’t be easy either. It actually needs a good plan to win the final,” Cheruiyot said. Cheruiyot will lead Kenya’s field that also includes the national trials winner Charles Simotwo and Abel Kipsang. “Being the senior athlete in the team I know we must work as a team and support each other all the way to the final and however wins among us then we shall be happy,” added Cheruiyot. Being a three-time Diamond League winner and a world champion, the spotlight will be on Cheruiyot. “It is true there are a lot of expectations but it is upon me to control that and just focus on my race,” he said. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy