Deputy President William Ruto has defended his much touted bottom-up economic model, accusing his critics of misinterpreting the slogan. DP Ruto, while speaking in Nyandarua County on Sunday, said his presidential bid is pegged on the economic model that he asserts pays attention to the small and medium enterprises. The Hustler narrative has in the recent past been at the heart of intense political debate, with those opposed to it terming it a clueless  model. The homecoming event for newly-elected Rurii ward MCA Francis Muraya in Nyandarua County provided a platform for defence of the wheelbarrow brand of politics with the deputy president telling off his critics. “Mimi nataka niwaambie mwache kukwama kuangalia wheelbarrow…nyuma ya wheelbarrow kuna economic model inaitwa bottom up ambayo itawezesha mwananchi mwenye hana kazi apate kazi,” said the DP. “Ametuambia bottom up itaangalia mambo ya potatoes ambayo ndio kitu sisi tunalima hapa,” said Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata. Also Read: Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wah, on his part, said: “Tunawaambia sisi tumejipanga kama mahustler, tukipanga uchumi ya mwananchi wa kawaida kwanza.” DP Ruto also took the function as a platform to popularise the United Democratic Alliance (UDA), a party he has been associated with since its inception. By deed and word, the deputy president and his allies showed that it was in all likelihood his 2022 presidential campaign vehicle . “Sisi tuko tayari…sisi tuko na chama inaitwa UDA…sisi tuko na mpango inaitwa bottom up…sisi tuko na wananchi wamejipanga…nyinyi kama mpango yenu ni mtu anaitwa William Ruto mtakwama,” he said. “Hii mambo ni kujipanga…kama hawajajipanga, hawajui candidate wao, hawajui chama chao, sisi tuko na wheelbarrow,” said Dagoretti South MP John Kiarie. Members of Parliament who accompanied DP Ruto dismissed the Mt Kenya unity meetings held in Nyeri and Meru on Saturday. “Kuna upepo Mt. Kenya region…hiyo upepo tumeunganisha sisi sote tukiangalia future,” said Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro. Nominated MP Cecily Mbarire said: “Huko Embu tushaamua…hata ukiskia wakiongea mambo ya unity ya Mt. Kenya, sisi tuko na unity ya watu wa Kenya wote chini ya William Ruto.” “Mambo ya kujua nani atakuwa rais baada yako sio shughuli yako, ni wananchi ndio wataamua…sasa yeye anatumiwa vibaya, anapatiwa stress, ati atafutie Raila urais,” said Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. The assembly of leaders gathered in Rurii seemingly carefully selected to present a national look as each sang a familiar political tune. Ruto said he is ready to face his opponents at the ballot, further mocking them with a call to quickly announce their candidate.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy