Kenya’s athletics legend, Paul Tergat, has been re-elected a member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) following Wednesday’s congress in Tokyo, Japan. The former world marathon record holder and two-time Olympics silver medallist will serve another eight years in the role for which he was first elected in 2013. The 52-year-old — who enjoyed an iconic rivalry on the track with Ethiopian great Haile Gebreselassie — was one of five members re-elected to the post. Octavian Morariu of Romania, Brazil’s Bernard Rajzman, Mikaela Cojuangco Jaworski of the Philippines and Ethiopia’s Dagmawit Girmay Berhane are the other four. Tergat has also been appointed by the IOC President, Thomas Bach as a Member of the IOC Tokyo Games Disciplinary Commission. Thanking the IOC President for the appointment, Tergat expressed his profound delight for the opportunity to provide his services and passion for the Olympic Family, especially athletes during the extraordinary Games of the XXXII Olympiad edition in Tokyo. Also Read: “I give my assurance of willingness and readiness to discharge the assigned responsibility with diligence, integrity, without fear or favour for the benefit of the desired goals and objectives of the Disciplinary Committee”, said Mr. Tergat, while acknowledging the appointment. “It is a great honour for me, but most importantly, for my country Kenya, represented here by our gallant Team Kenya”, he added. Tergat sits with Dr. Kipchoge Keino, a Honorary Member of IOC and his immediate predecessor at the helm of the National Olympic Committee-Kenya (NOC-K). Former synchronized swimmer Nicole Hoevertsz was elected as a vice-president of the global organisation, taking the place vacated by American Anita De Frantz who has served the maximum of two four-year terms. The 57-year-old from Aruba, who has only been a member of the IOC Executive Board for four years, received 72 votes with seven against. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy