KCB RFC have reclaimed the top spot of the Kenya Cup after a narrow 22-19 win against Menengai Oilers in a match played at the ASK Showground, Nakuru. Curtis Olago charges have 28 points from six games, three points ahead of Kabras Sugar who have played five games. Earlier Kabras had climbed temporarily top of the standings after demolishing Top Fry Nakuru 40-15 at the Nakuru Athletic Club, Nakuru. The Kakamega-based side sits one point ahead defending champions KCB RFC who could reclaim top spot if they defeat Menengai Oilers in their clash at the same venue. Kenyan internationals Brian Tanga and George Nyambua contributed a brace each in the visitors’ six tries and converted five while Nakuru scored two tries converting one plus a penalty. Kabras scored their first try after a successful maul in the fourth minute through half back Brian Tanga, South African Ntabeni Dukisa converting it to make it 07-00. Also Read: Flanker George Nyambua added the second try for the 2016 champions in the 13th minute with Dukisa adding the extras to make it 14-00. In the 17th minutes Samuel Mwaura missed a penalty in the 18th line to bring the home team back to the game after Kabras played a forward play. Half back Brian Tanga and flanker John Kubu played a one two play at the centre giving Ntabeni Dukisa free space to run to the line scoring the third try, missing the extras to make it 19-00 in the 32nd minute. Fijian born John Kubu scored the fourth try between the posts converting it to give the western side a bonus point with a 26-00 at halftime. Kenyan international Brian Tanga scored his brace and Kabras fifth in the 52nd minute after a successful scrum with Kubu converting it to make it 33-00. Kabras Walter Okoth was sin binned in the 59th minutes giving way for Top Fry Nakuru to score their first try through Edwin Makori, Christine Onyango converting it to make it 33-07. In the 66th fly half Chrispine Onyango scored a penalty to make it 33-10. George Nyambua added his brace a minute later after winning the ball after a scrum scoring Kabras sixth try, Kubu adding the extras to make it 40-10. Felix Okoth scored Nakuru’s second try after sprinting to the left Onyango missing the extras to make it 40-15 at full time. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy