Deputy President William Ruto has weighed in on the ongoing State vs. legislator Rigathi Gachagua saga, claiming that the problems facing the Mathira Member of Parliament are politically motivated. Taking to Twitter, the second-in-command asserted that the persecution of his friends ‘will soon end,’ possibly referring to the 2022 General Election, which will mark the end of Jubilee’s two-term tenure. “They have connections,networks,pedigree& godfathers BUT we have GOD our Father,” DP Ruto tweeted “This persecution on account of our friendship & political beliefs will come to an end.” His statement comes just hours after the Mathira MP was apprehended at his Nyeri home by a DCI team of at least 20 officers. His arrest sparked online and offline protests, with his supporters taking to the streets for raucous picketing. Speaking to the media on his way to the DCI headquarters, the MP accused the State of waging war against him because of his devotion to the deputy President. Also Read: “I want to tell the people of Mathira to ignore the rumours, their MP has not stolen anything, these are just baseless accusation to intimidate me for my political standing,” the MP said on Friday “They just wanted to arrest me on Friday and detain me for the weekend to punish me, and it is okay,” Gachagua claims he was arrested for allegedly embarrassing the administration during the recently concluded Kiambaa by-elections, in which the President’s party lost a close race to the Ruto-affiliated UDA. However, at the heart of his problems are allegations of willful misappropriation of public funds, with the DCI said to be investigating the source of some Ksh.12.5 billion said to have passed through his accounts. During an interview with Citizen TV on Tuesday night, the MP insisted that he had made his fortune through hard work, having dabbled in a variety of businesses as a young man, including organizing discos and owning a candy factory. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy