The WRC Safari Rally lived up to its billing as the most enticing and endearing for fans across the world, as it racked up amazing numbers with regards to following and viewership across the globe. In a report seen by Citizen Digital, the WRC promoter has ranked Safari Rally as the most followed WRC event ever on Facebook with 31.8 million views as compared to Rally Italia Sardegna which accumulated 16.8 million views and 18.6 million views in 2019 and 2018 respectively. The WRC Safari rally media director Peter Njenga lauded Kenyans for their enthusiasm in welcoming back the Safari rally after a 19-year absence. “Let me congratulate our local Media and INFO Team for a job well done. University students, assisted by veterans, produced one of the slickest social media campaigns in Kenya’s sporting history. These boys used their own channels too to soar the figures. “The Safari outscored all the five rally events this year with the Shakedown ranked as the most watched in WRC history thanks to traffic from Kenya occasioned by a relentless pre-event public blitz.” Toyota Kenya Takamoto Katsuta’s top speed antics caught the eye for most in this platform, as he emerged as the most performing post on Facebook with over 4.1 million views. Also Read: Safari racked up an astonishing 26.6 million Instagram impressions with a total of 262 posts and over 3.5 million video views. Kalle Rovanpera’s post was the most performing post on Instagram. On microblogging site Twitter, the Safari rally generated a splendid 5.4 million impressions with over 150k video views. BBC World news led Priority 1 news channels with 78 million views, followed by Japan (76M) and United States (52M). Nation Africa pay wall recorded 2M impressions to rank first in Africa and 14th in the world. The WRC official website received a total of 33,274 views during the Safari Rally, making it the most followed rally event this year, with only Rally Monte Carlo Croatia Rally getting to over 20,000 views. Aside from WRC Promoter platforms, Youtube attracted 15 million viewers, not to mention over 50 newspaper full pages locally in 4 days by our daily press as well as extensive digital coverage. These numbers will be appealing to the WRC Safari rally Kenya organisers but will put on more pressure to deliver an even better spectacle, when the sleek cars make a return here in Kenya for next year’s Safari Rally. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy