Kenya rugby 15’s coach Paul Odera says his target is to reach the rugby World Cup 2023 in France ahead of their 2023 World qualifiers against Senegal this weekend at Nyayo Stadium. Speaking exclusively to Citizen Digital Odera said the Senegalese has brought a strong team but he is optimistic of winning the duel. “We have two games in the next two weekends then we wait for stage two, we have made our analysis and Senegal have come with a very big team so we have to look of being smart in terms of how we move them around because we’re smaller with them coming with a huge team,” said Odera. Odera believes it’s a loss to lose players in the squad who will represent the country in the sevens at the Olympics in Japan. The team commonly known as the Simbas will miss Herman Humwa, Jacob Ojee, Nelson Oyoo, Antony Omondi, Harold Anduvate and Vincent Onyala who are preparing for the Olympics with Shujaa. “This won’t pull us back but it’s a lose losing the likes of Vincent Onyala, Ojee, Humwa, Oyoo and Antony Omondi so missing these players has an effect but we still have a strong squad and it’s a boost for Kenya rugby to have a team in the Olympics and in the World Cup qualifiers,” said Odera. Also Read: Kabras Sugar dominate the squad with nine players Odera saying they’re in a very good shape at the moment. Captain Dan Sikuta who plays as a lock tops the list alongside Brian Tanga, John Kubu, Brian Juma, Ephraim Oduor, George Nyambua, Eugene Sifuna, Bryceson Adaka and Robinson Barry. “The Kabras players are very strong and they’re in very good shape and having played for Kenyan teams and coached them when you have strong players it allows us to compete against any team so Kudos to Kabras’  strength and conditioning coach Ritchie for keeping them in good shape,” added Odera. Kenya will battle it out with Senegal and Zambia in pool B and the top two teams will proceed to the last eight (knockout stage) which will be the Rugby Africa Cup 2022 and the World Cup qualifiers final round. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy