Thunder men basketball team head coach Sadat Gaya has attributed his team’s twin defeat at the weekend to inconsistency in the league matches and lack of training. Gaya says they were affected as team training was nonexistent due to Covid-19 protocols, compared to their counterparts Terror and Ulinzi Warriors who have been training, noting that the duo, by virtue of being students and soldiers respectively, had the advantage as they reside under a bubble setting, which made workouts easier for them. “The issue of the league being postponed and stoppage affected us even though basically I did not prepare my team well, but I will do a much better job in the coming matches,” he said.  “Ulinzi and Terror having been training. Terror, being students, they weren’t affected that much with the ban,” Gaya said. His sentiments were echoed by team captain Griffins Ligare. “Long layoff because of Covid-19 was the main reason for the defeat. We used to train but not as a team. Players used to do individual training to keep fit wherever they were and we were not sure if we were to play or not because of Covid protocols but we will now start having full team training and hoping for better results in the coming matches,” he said. Thunder lost to University of Nairobi’s Terror 61-51 on Saturday before losing 56-39 to defending champions Ulinzi on Sunday. Also Read: So far Thunder have played six games, winning three – against Lakeside, KU Pirates and Umoja, while losing an equal number against EMYBA, Terror and Ulinzi. They have nine points. In their game against Terror, Thunder could barely recognize themselves. A number of exits ahead of the 2021 league season have left the Shauri Moyo-based club bleeding and it shows from the results the Sadat Gaya-coached side are churning. Among the key players Thunder lost before the start of the season are Kevin Chogo, Faheem Juma and Shem Otieno who all went to Equity Bank. Others are Ancet Wafula who went to Ulinzi Warriors, Benjamin Muga who was taken by Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), and Benjamin Onea who went to Eldoret for work-related assignment. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy