Mayu Ishikawa led the scoring for Japan with 13 points, alongside Ai Kurogo, as the hosts made short work of an error-prone Kenya in a 25-15 25-11 25-23 victory at the Ariake Arena on Sunday. It was an underwhelming start to the Olympic campaign for the Kenyans who are making only their third appearance at the global showpiece. After underwhelming performances in the first two sets, Kenya’s Malkia Strikers appeared they would avoid a straight sets defeat only to collapse in the final moments of the third. Defending women’s champions China were stunned in straight sets by Turkey in their Olympic volleyball Pool B opener, going down 25-21 25-14 25-14 . China, who have won six Olympic medals in women’s volleyball including three gold, were overpowered by the Turks for whom opposite hitter Ebrar Karakurt — with her distinctive bright pink hair — led the way with 18 points.  Also Read: The Chinese lacked cohesion throughout the encounter and coach Lang Ping made several substitutions to find the right combination while Turkey stuck with the same line-up for all three sets. “Right now we’re so happy because we know that Chinese are a great team, they have incredibly talented players and they are the Olympic champions,” Turkey captain Eda Dundar, who led the match with four blocks, told reporters. “Today we served well… In every part of the game we were leading. Maybe China didn’t play their best game but we played our best game.” China’s top scorer Zhang Changning (13 points) said they must “prepare from zero” for the upcoming games. Earlier, Jordan Thompson scored 20 points to lead top-ranked U.S. to a comprehensive victory over Argentina, with the 2016 bronze medallists winning 25-20 25-19 25-20 to open their account in Pool B. Thompson was supported at the net by Jordan Larson, who had 10 points, while Michelle Bartsch-Hackley added 13. “The two Jordans were able to find a good connection,” U.S. head coach Karch Kiraly told reporters while middle blocker Foluke Akinradewo said the team had a “gold medal mentality.” “We’re going for gold, 100%,” Akinradewo said. The Americans have won five Olympic medals in women’s volleyball, but never the gold. In the other Pool B encounter, Italy were tested in their opening set against the Russian Olympic Committee team but won 25-23 25-19 25-14 while Serbia cruised past the Dominican Republic in Pool A.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy