Kariobangi Sharks were this afternoon held to a 2-2 draw against Western Stima in the only Kenyan Premier League match played today. Eric Kapaito scored a brace to take his tally to 18 goals so far this season and keep his place in the top scorer chart. Western Stima goals were scored by Rodgers Ouma and Brian Jobita who had earlier missed two penalties for the visitors. The draw means Sharks remain fifth on standings with 35 points from 23 games while Stima remain one point above relegation with 17 points from 23 games Meanwhile, Gormahia head coach Carlos Vas Pinto has lauded the leadership of experienced defender Haron Shakava since taking over the captain armband from Kenneth Muguna. Last evening, Gor defeated arch-rivals AFC Leopards in the FKF final to earn their ticket to represent the country in next season’s CAF confederations cup and while speaking to HOT96 Arena on Saturday, Pinto said good leadership on and off the field from Shakava has inspired the team to get good results in recent matches. Also Read: “He knows the club’s culture. He is a leader who leads by example. He has shown that since taking over the captain’s armband. “Shakava works had in training and even during matches… I hope he keeps fit for the remaining part of the season as we work hard towards defending the title,” says Pinto. Despite Tusker having already gotten the ticket for next season’s Champions League, the Portuguese tactician said their focus is to win the league and let the law take its cause in terms of who should represent the country in the continental championship. “It’s a sad state of affairs in the league, CAF had given considerations to countries whose league had been affected by the pandemic, and I fail to understand why the federation did not put that into consideration when they were making the decision. Our aim is to be number one at the end of the season then see what will follow after that,” Pinto told Hot 96 Arena The defending champions are fourth in the league with 39 points from 22 games and will next face league leaders Tusker FC on Thursday. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy