On the third day of his tour of the Coast Raila Odinga was joined by a section of leaders from the jubilee party in an informal meeting dubbed Eid Baraza. Though he remains non-committal on whether he will contest for the presidency Odinga maintains the Deputy President is wrong on his approach to the politics of 2022. Ruto and Odinga still split on the fate of BBI sponsored constitutional amendments a matter that is due for judgment by the court of Appeal on 20th of August. “Sasa ukimpatia kijana wheelbarrow inamsaidia vipi… wanasema ati tunazidisha gharama, hapana tunapunguza kwa kuleta waziri mkuu ambaye ni mbunge. Tumesema tunataka kuongeza raslimali hadi 35 pc. Kuna makosa?” Raila said on Wednesday. He went on to say: “Kabla hawajaongea na sisi waombe msamaha kwanza. Kwa sababu ile walitwambia ni priority ya kubadilisha katiba na ipatikane vyeo ndio imesababisha mahali tulipo vijana wanahangaika kwa sababu ya utapeli wao walikuja wakabadilisha agenda ya serikali” Also Read: Just days after the Jubilee party suffered defeat at the Kiambaa by-election in the hands of Ruto’s new party UDA, National Assembly majority leader Amos Kimunya led a host of jubilee leaders for a meeting with Raila before joining him at the event. UDA’s John NJuguna Wanjiku won the poll with 50 percent of the vote, beating Jubilee’s Kariri Njama with 510 votes. “Musijali mambo ya Kiambaa na ilikuwa Kwa miezi mitatu tu tukienda miezi sita mambo itakuwa poa. Na Sisi tunataka 40% Tu. Ndio joho na Raila wafanye mambo,” Nominated MP Maina Kamanda said. Slightly over a year to the general election, some of the ODM leaders are getting impatient with the naming of a presidential candidate. “We need to announce our presidential candidate as soon as possible. I want to announce here odm will field a candidate in the coming general election. Ikiwa itawezekana hata mwezi moja isiishe,” Mvita MP Abdulswamad said. But as the Jubilee leaders fought off perceived influence of Ruto in Mount Kenya, they are now offering the more than 5 million votes from ten counties of Mt. Kenya to Odinga, as Joho warned the region against hasty decisions. “Najua hata ukiangalia mbele huo ushirikiano na uhusiano katika siku zetu za usoni uko sawasawa. Ndio tuwache wale wanataka kugawanya watu badala ya empowerment hasa Kwa vijana.,” Majority leader at the National Assembly Amos Kimunya said. Mombasa Governor warned Kenyans against deceptive politicians, saying some of the ills that would be perpetrated would take Kenya 50 years to recover. “You will think one morning kwa sababu mtu mwingine amekuambia fitina utafuata tu? Mkifanya makosa safari hii, it will take you 50 years to recover,” Deputy President William Ruto continued his onslaught against the opposition parties, this time in Machakos, Kalonzo Musyoka’s political backyard. “Walifikiri ni mchezo nilipowaambia serikali ya 2022 itaundwa na hustler. Sasa wamejipata mahali pabaya, kwa sababu saa hizi wanahangaika huko kwa boardroom wakitafuta sijui tuungane na nani…” Dp Ruto said. “Tuongee ukweli kura ya Machakos, Kitui na Makueni ni 1.5m, sasa 1.5 m kuna mahali itaenda? Hata ukienda stage ukute magari, unaingia ile iko karibu kujaa ama ile haina mtu?” MP Rigathi Gachagua posed. Ruto was speaking at a meeting of traders within Machakos Town constituency. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy