The much-awaited Mashemeji derby between Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards could fail to take place tomorrow as earlier planned. This is after the chairmen of both clubs wrote a joint letter to the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) demanding their grants which are yet to be released to them. The letter authored by Gor chairman Ambrose Rachier and Leopards chair Dan Shikanda addressed to the Federation is demanding a payment of Ksh.3 million which they want wired to the two club’s accounts for winning and finishing runners up respectively in the FKF Cup. Part of the letter read: ‘’Whereas you are obligated to make monthly payments of sponsorship grants, you have intentionally neglected, failed and/or refused to remit to us in full the sponsorship  money as of date.’’ Further demands in the letter read: ‘’Whereas the sponsorship for Betway Cup has been paid to you by the sponsors, you have neglected, failed, or refused to give the winning team and the runners up  Ksh. 2,000,000 (for Gor Mahia) and Ksh. 1,000,000 (for AFC Leopards) respectively.” The two chairmen in conclusion have told the Federation that unless the monies are released by 4pm today, they will not honour the league match slated for Saturday, July 31. Also Read: The match was slated for Nyayo National Stadium on July 31 as from 3pm Both teams are out of contention for the league title after mixed performances with Gor going seven league matches without a win. Gor is however Kenya’s representatives at the CAF Confederations Cup courtesy of a spot-kick win against AFC Leopards in the FKF Cup final. Meanwhile, should the game kick-off, Gor will be at liberty to play midfielder Kenneth Muguna even after joining Azam of Tanzania. According to Gor Chair Rachier, they were in agreement with Muguna that his stay at Gor will collapse at the end of July – meaning, his signature with Tanzania’s Azam will be effective from August 1. However, coach Sammy Omollo ‘’Pamzo’’ said he might not play following his absence from the training sessions meaning he may not be physically and psychologically ready for the derby. ‘’He told me he would be available till July 31 but since then he has not attended any training meaning he is likely to be out of my plan.’’ explained ‘Pamzo’. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy