Deputy President William Ruto has told off former Prime Minister Raila Odinga over recent attacks by the ODM party leader that he – the DP – is corrupt. Mr. Odinga on Saturday directed his not so subtle salvos at DP Ruto’s donations to churches and various groups, saying the millions of shillings donated are taxpayer money acquired fraudulently. However, the DP in retaliation during a church service in Umoja on Sunday, said Mr. Odinga’s tenure in government was characterised by corruption and theft of money meant for the youth. Ruto added that it was only in Kenya where the opposition could purport to run government, further stating that he is in no way ashamed of making donations in church and helping the lowly on society. “Kenya hii msikuwe na wasiwasi, kuna watu wengi wako na vitisho…sijui nini itafanyika, eti sijui watasongesha lini…mimi nataka niwaambie hiyo yote ni porojo ya bure. Tunafanya uchaguzi Tuesday ya pili August next year, na wananchi ndio wenye kuamua. Na safari hii tunaunda serikali ambayo inaelewa lugha ya mtu mdogo,” said the DP. “Naskia wanalalamika nilikuja kanisani kusaidia, ati mbona anaenda kwa wamama na bodaboda. Hayo mashtaka ni ya kweli hawajakosea, wamesema ukweli, mashtaka eti mimi naungana na kanisa kuwasaidia hawajakosea. Ile hawasemi ni kwamba mimi nimewahi wasaidia pia kupata vyeo kubwa kubwa. Wakati huo watu wa boda boda na mama mboga hawakulalamika.” Also Read: He added: “Wakiwa serikali walikuwa wanaibia vijana, sasa wako kwa serikali bado wanaibia watu kupitia Covid billionaires. Opposition runs corruption cartels in government, it is only in Kenya.” DP RUTO TELLS OFF RAILA: DP Ruto responds to attacks from ODM leader Raila OdingaRuto: During your tenure as PM money meant for youth was looted Ruto attends church service at the PCEA Church in Umoja, Nairobi#CitizenWeekend pic.twitter.com/PXz74s2OI5 — Citizen TV Kenya (@citizentvkenya) July 4, 2021  Mr. Odinga on Saturday said he will arrest and jail all corrupt officials under the current Jubilee government should he assume power next year, in a yet another clear indication that he will be making another stab at the top seat “Sisi tukishika hatamu ya utawala hawa wezi wataingia ndani wote, na pesa ya taifa tutaweka kwa upande ya wataifa kwa njia ya maendeleo,” he said. And as the 2022 succession matrix hots up, the former premier seemingly turned his guns on DP Ruto questioning the source of millions of shillings donated to churches and various groups. “Pesa ambayo amebeba mamilioni ametoa wapi? Wezi ambao wanatakikana kuwa Shimo la Tewa wanatembea na mahelicopter kila mahali wakitoa pesa kila upande, hiyo ni taifa gani? Kanisa imefunguliwa amekuja na magunia ya pesa,” he stated.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy