AFC Leopards have officially surrendered the race for the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League title with seven matches to play, head coach Patrick Aussems has confirmed after his side fell 12 points adrift. The admission they are no longer able to catch up with the leaders Tusker FC follows Tuesday’s shock 3-2 loss to 15th placed Western Stima at ASK Nakuru Grounds and marks an underwhelming end for what looked like a promising campaign for Leopards. “We know now that we are out of the battle for the title and so now I just want to rally my players to play for pride so as to finish the season well and put focus on the season ahead,” Aussems said. Aussems has however lamented on what he termed as poor standards of refereeing claiming that that league department has not been professional in officiating matters. He has urged FKF to address the issue. He has pointed fingers on officiating in a number of matches this season namely; In a 4-1 shootout loss to Gor Mahia in the FKF Cup final, 1-0 loss against Mathare United and 2-0 loss to Kariobangi Sharks at Thika Municipal stadium just to mention a few. “The biggest problem though I’m not complaining or crying but I think you should talk about the officiating which I think is terrible and for football in Kenya I don’t really understand. Also Read: “I prefer not to talk much about this because I am a professional coach, we have professional players but unfortunately we don’t have professional referees here. I just hope that all these guys in black or yellow will let us play,” Aussems lamented. The disappointing results have now condemned Ingwe to fourth position on 43 points, 12 shy of leaders Tusker. His counterpart at Western Stima Abdalla Juma is hopeful that his boys will take their winning form to their remaining matches as they fight to evade relegation. “I thank God for the three points that we have collected today and I am confident we are going to pull at least seven or eight points in the six remaining matches. The win today is definitely a turning point to the boys’ psychology and so the next game we are going to play with motivation,” Juma said. Leopards now find themselves below Tusker, KCB (51) and Kariobangi Sharks (44) who clipped defending champions Gor Mahia 2-1 yesterday, with the latter dropping to fifth on 40 points. Stima sit in position 15 on 21 points, six ahead of bottom placed Mathare United and four above Vihiga United. FKF-PL RESULTS (WEDNESDAY) KCB 2-1 Ulinzi Stars Gor Mahia 1-2 Kariobangi Sharks Kakamega Homeboyz 0-1 Wazito FC ‘Posta Rangers 0-0 Nzoia Sugar Vihiga United 0-0 Nairobi City Stars Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy