The chilling murders and the movie-like disappearance of 34-year-old Caroline Kangogo have puzzled detectives who are piecing together the movements of the officer who is now a fugitive. Citizen TV has learnt that Corporal Kangogo is a sharp shooter who has served in various stations including the Kiganjo Training College over the last more than ten years. Detectives in Nakuru now want Corporal Caroline Kangogo, a key suspect in the murder of 2 men on diverse dates between Sunday and Tuesday to surrender to the police. 34 -year old Caroline Chemutai Kangogo was propelled to the limelight on Monday, July 5th when detectives in a circular to all police divisions revealed that she was a person of interest in the murder of Corporal John Ogweno in Nakuru and Peter Ndwiga in Thika. Days later, police are yet to arrest her. Before the sudden turn of events, sources intimated to Citizen TV that Caroline lived a calm life. Caroline, who was born in 1987 in Elgeyo Marakwet county, began her training in the National Police Service 13 years ago when she pursued a shooting range course from the Kenya Police College in Kiganjo and later a corporal course in the same institution in 2014. Sources say the suspect may be using certain skills drawn from her past life to kill her target without sounding the alarm and evade arrrest. She has served in 4 different police stations, including: Police Training College in Mombasa in 2009 , Kaloleni police station for 3 years between 2010 and 2013, Kenya Police College ,Kiganjo – 2013-2015 and her current workstation, Central Police Station in Nakuru since 2015. In 2015, Caroline was promoted to the Corporal rank, one which she has served in for 6 years now. Nakuru Police Commander Beatrice Kiraguri ,who has served as Caroline’s boss, paints for us a clear picture of who Caroline is. “Hapa akiwa Nakuru alikuwa anafanya court ordely na tulimweka kwa sababu anajua kudeal na prisoners…mpaka saa hii hatujaelewa what is happening,kulingana na action kuna kitu labda inamsumbua kwa kawaidia huezi kuuwa mtu wa kwanza wa pili,” Police commander Beatrice Kiraguri said on Wednesday. Her close allies at her workstation termed her as a team player, a jovial officer who was always willing to assist her colleagues. Sources further revealed that in 2019, Caroline faced an Indiscipline case for negligence at work. Further, Caroline is believed to have been a sex worker besides her work in the police service. Police officers are now calling on the suspect to surrender to avert further disaster. Corporal Kangogo is married to a senior police officer, and together they have two children aged 8 and 11. But for now, no one seems to know the whereabouts of the mystery killer who has rattled the entire police service. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy