The High Court has stopped the University of Nairobi (UoN) from implementing planned reforms pending hearing and determination of a case filed by the Universities Academic Staff Union (UASU). UASU accused the UoN administration of developing the reforms without the input of key stakeholders such as the students’ association, the Commission for University Education, the Public Service Commission and the Ministry of Education. The union, in a petition filed through lawyer Koceyo Titus, argued that the new structure is not anchored in law and has led to loss of jobs by UASU members as well as loss of courses in complete disregard to the students. “…the Petitioner is a necessary key stakeholder on matters that touch on administration of public universities as it directly affects the services rendered by its members and the terms of service of its members,” read court papers. “…the Respondent willfully failed to give policy guidance to the Vice Chancellor of the 1st Respondent so much that the intended reforms have no policy framework nor transitional guidelines from the current governance structure which has caused anxiety, disquiet and confusion in the university.” Lady Justice Maureen Onyango, in her ruling, set the matter for hearing on July 28, 2021, adding that: “In the meantime, conservatory orders are granted pending Inter parties hearing of the application.” Also Read: Education Cabinet Secretary Prof. George Magoha recently suspended the proposed administrative changes in the University of Nairobi saying the changes must follow the law. While lauding the move by various universities to ensure their academic and administrative structures conform to their financial muscle, Prof. Magoha termed the proposed changes at UoN illegal. The changes by the university council touched on reorganisation of the administrative structure, which included abolishing 24 constituent colleges from the normal 35 to 11. The changes meant to also abolish five offices of the deputy vice-chancellors and replace it with two positions of associate vice chancellors. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy