TECNO has ventured into new heights by announcing its newest flagship smartphone, PHANTOM X. The TECNO Phantom X Launch was graced by renowned influencers among them Jeff Koinange, Janet Mbugua, Grace Msalame, Nick Mutuma, Sharon Mundia, Victoria Kimani, Nameless and Wahu. The mentioned eight will be the key influencers to carry the Phantom X brand that was introduced as a sub-brand for TECNO Mobile Limited.  Each of the influencers is known to be extraordinary in their own special way in line with the Phantom X – Be bold, Be Extraordinary theme. The launch was organized in a unique way having a whisky experience and Phantom X cocktail prepared for the guests. “I am proud to be part of this project with my amazing friends who are extraordinary humans who wake every day to work hard and do extraordinary things in the society.” Jeff Koinange. “Hard work, consistency and never giving up is what has driven me to be an extraordinary human.,” he added. Also Read:  Debuting on July 1st 2021, PHANTOM X features an elegant design of 3D Borderless Screen and the industry’s first silk glass back cover. The combination of the 50MP Ultra-Night camera and the industry’s leading 1/1.3 super large senor, 48MP Ultra-Clear Selfie camera with 105°Ultra-Wide angle, not to mention the AI-assisted Super Night Mode and 50mm Golden Portrait, provides a big leap in camera performance. Powered by a 4700mAh, 256G+8G large memory and a newly-updated HiOS 7.6 system, PHANTOM X empowers and supports every experience of your life and work. Committed to bringing users bold and extraordinary innovations in design, technology, and complete user. PHANTOM X empowers consumers to feel their extraordinary best throughout all their special moments in life. PHANTOM X will be available in two artistic colors of Van Gogh’s Starry Night and Monet’s Summer Garden now available in the market. Customers can get PHANTOM X through the online one-stop website www.mobile-phantom.com and shop at local TECNO stores across Africa and other countries including Pakistan, Turkey, Columbia and more. “We’re proud to introduce the all-new PHANTOM X. It is an extraordinary beginning that encompasses TECNO’s vision, encapsulating and reframed for a new audience of more demanding consumers,” said Stephen Ha, General Manager of TECNO, “PHANTOM X isn’t just an innovative high-end smartphone; it empowers the modern extraordinary individuals’ way of life-being bold to reject the ordinary, always strive for success and have the ambition to achieve new heights. Holding this spirit, we aim to continually make breakthroughs in product and design innovations as we have delivered through PHANTOM X.”  The new PHANTOM X offers the industry’s first curved glass surface etched texture. The innovative silk glass is based on a series of complex tests and manufacturing procedures, finally creating the elegant touch of “silk delicacy” and “glass sparkle”. The extraordinary etched textured design presents vertical refined lines, producing pure artistic expression based on exquisite craftsmanship. PHANTOM X came up with two classical colours: Van Gogh’s Starry Night Blue and Monet’s Summer Garden. Van Gogh’s Starry Night brings a stellar display of the mysteriously nebulous sky. Monet’s Summer Garden is a display of warm and exuberant colors. Both are perfect options for bold explorers and innovators. “It is a bold experiment to redefine the customer experience and we are confident that TECNO will through the Phantom X and many more of its products exceed your expectations.” TECNO Brand Manager, Kenya Mr. Shiva Zhong.  Extraordinary Pleasure of Technology Extraordinary Camera Performance The powerful camera system of the PHANTOM X device consists of triple rear and dual front cameras. PHANTOM X adopts an industry-leading 50MP Ultra-Night Camera with a 1/1.3-inch Ultra-Large Sensor, making it easy to shoot crisp, professional photos. The 50MP Ultra-Night camera featuring 1/1.3-inch Ultra-Large sensor can take in 33% more light from the outer environment compared to camera featuring 108MP camera with 1/1.5-inch sensor. Imagine taking a selfie with PHANTOM X’s 48MP Ultra-Clear Selfie camera, you can capture every detail such as: clearer skin textures, sharper facial features, and even brighter smiles. It is ideal for both individual and group selfies with the AI-assisted 105°Ultra-Wide angle. With PHANTOM X’s Super Night Mode, night photography will never be a challenge again.  Extraordinary Inner Power PHANTOM X empowers users to become up to date mobile players with a large storage capacity, powerful battery, as well as an efficient UI and OS design. With 8G+256GB of storage, users can capture endless memorable pictures and videos. Also, you can always stay cool with the powerful 4700mAh battery. When fully charged, it can support 30 days standby battery life, 16-hour video streaming and 9-hour video meeting. With a 33W flash charge, 30 minutes of charge can pump up charge to 70% battery life and 60 minutes of charge pumping up to 100%. What’s more, PHANTOM X is comprehensively upgraded in UI design, intelligent operation, and system performance, bringing a higher efficiency and fluency in use. Be among the cool and latest smartphone users with PHANTOM X, fully charged and up for any challenge. Features of PHANTOM X:  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy