The Tuesday meeting of the One Kenya Alliance announced the death of NASA with FORD Kenya, Wiper and ANC parties set to resign from the coalition. But while the announcement was public, what was not made public was when the three parties will petition the registrar of political parties to effect the collapse of NASA. It is emerging that the much touted mass withdrawal and walk out from NASA may not be immediate just yet. And at stake is monies from the political parties fund. Wiper party Leader Kalonzo Musyoka has slowed down the process with a planned Thursday meeting with opposition chief Raila Odinga. The outcome of the meeting over the controversial sharing of revenue among NASA parties is said to have a bearing on whether the dissolution of NASA will happen. Also Read: Odinga who is in coast has already denied that the party receives any funds from the contested 2017 presidential vote The Wiper party leader petitioned the Registrar of Parties to convene a meeting of the coalition parties over the controversial revenue share. The registrar scheduled the meeting for the 21st of April 2021. ODM nominated its Deputy Party Leader and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya to lead its team in the meeting. A meeting that would later be cancelled. With the first meeting aborted, the Orange party took the liberty to request the registrar of parties for a meeting of NASA members to deliberate and put the matter on revenue share to rest. “There is an article 1E inasema that in the event the other political parties do not qualify for direct funding then the party that will have qualified will support the others which have not qualified,” Kalonzo said. The unending squabbling over the revenue share now stands in the way of the pull-out threat from NASA and as well the take-off, of One Kenya Alliance. Opposition chief Raila Odinga and his orange party ostensibly holding Ford Kenya, ANC, wiper and by extension One Kenya Alliance at ransom Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy