The Homa Bay County Stadium is finally taking shape, two years after its scheduled completion date amid heightened concerns from sports stakeholders and residents. Around Sh369 million had been allocated to the project during the financial year 2018/2019, with the construction tender awarded to Six Eleven Construction Company Ltd in June 2019. The plan was to have it completed within a period of 12 months with all essentials such the VIP pavilion, changing room, anti-doping rooms, athletics track, playing pitch, restaurants among other facilities. The chief officer in charge of sports in the county government of Homa Bay Moses Buriri says the construction is at 70 percent and expects Phase One to be complete by September. Apart from sporting activities, upon completion the stadium will also host national celebrations and major national exhibitions. Phase One includes construction of the VIP pavilion with capacity of 2500-3000 people, eight lane athletic tracts, playing pitch and drainage system around the pitch. A visit at the stadium reveals beehives of activities taking place as the contractor rushed to complete the remaining work before handing over the facility to the county government for various sporting activities. At the time of the visit, Playing pitch, the eight running track and the VIP pavilion were on course. According to Buriri, the contractor is now compacting the eight-lane athletic track and its designing while the playing pitch has been compacted awaiting plating of the grass which will be done in a period of one month. At the VIP pavilion, the contractor is doing final touches at the offices, the VIP lounge and the roofing which is expected to be completed late August before the stadium is handed over to the county government. Buriri said that the stadium will also host the county department of sport offices, restaurants, two Anti-doping offices, the media stand among other offices. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy