President Uhuru Kenyatta’s anticipated visit to the Ukambani region will be a scaled down inspection of development projects and will avoid public gatherings due to the COVID-19 situation. In a statement issued on Tuesday, State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said the Head of State’s itinerary had been reviewed following a consultative meeting with leaders from the Lower Eastern Region; comprising the Counties of Kitui, Machakos, and Makueni. The leaders are said to have acknowledged the surge of infections in a number of African countries which have been compelled to institute full lockdowns in a bid to stem the spread of COVID-19 within their borders. “In view of the foregoing and cognisance of the Directives issued as part of Public Order No. 4 of 2021 on COVID-19 barring ‘superspreader’ events being held within Kenya for the reason that they imperil the public health and exacerbate the COVID-19 situation in our country, the meeting resolved to scale down the planned presidential visit to the region. “In that regard, the Meeting reiterated that full fidelity with that prohibition is of utmost public interest and is an integral pillar of Kenya’s COVID-19 containment strategy,” reads the statement. The dates for his tour will be announced later. Also Read: “Therefore, it is notified that whereas His Excellency the President remains keen to assess the impact of his Administration’s transformative projects and programmes across the Country, in this instance he will make a scaled down inspection of identified projects in the Lower Eastern Region in the company of all local leaders, on a date(s) to be notified,” reads the statement. The Tuesday meeting was attended by among other leaders Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kitui County Governor Charity Ngilu, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo, Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, Machakos Senator Agnes Kavindu, Makueni Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau, Machakos Deputy Governor Eng. Francis Maliti and other leaders serving in both Houses of Parliament. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy