Gor Mahia stand-in coach Sammy Omollo ‘Pamzo’ now says he is not opposed to players ditching the club for greener pastures. This follows reports linking midfield maestro Kenneth Muguna with a move to Tanzanian Premier League side Azam FC, as Pamzo remains calm already pondering on life without the Harambee Stars ace. ‘’I am always happy for players who get greener pastures since during my time at Gor, I also moved to greener pastures. Should Muguna’s deal mature, I will definitely have a suitable replacement from within the team,’’ said ‘Pamzo’. The club has been in a state of dilemma after reports emerged last week that close to seven players are on their way out over late payment of salaries and allowances. Muguna’s step is definitely a confirmation of what club officials initially termed as rumours. Pamzo’ has wished Muguna well in his future endeavors saying he has played his part at Gor. ‘’I only want to wish Muguna well since I also left Gor for another club when I saw an opening and my then coach gave me his blessings.’’ In 2018, the midfielder re-joined Gor from Tirana FK of Albania where he plied his trade for just one season after initially leaving Gor to join Musa Mohammed and former Gor Mahia coach Jose Marcello ‘Ze Maria’ Ferreira. Another player said to be on the move is dependable defender Charles Momanyi, who is being associated with rivals Tusker FC and KCB. Team manager Jolawi Obondo on Saturday refuted these allegations saying no player had communicated to the club their intent to leave. This is even as players who spoke to us on condition of anonymity confirmed there is an intended mass movement out of the club. Gor recently, through Chairman Ambrose Rachier, announced that their betting firm shirt sponsor had reduced their sponsorship money on mutual agreement following hard times occasioned by Covid19. He however said the firm had paid them part of next seasons’ monies as a way of helping the club out of salaries payment struggles. ‘Pamzo’, who is in charge following the departure of Carlos Manuel Vaz Pinto, has also said he has lost hope of retaining the League title with the local giants this season with eight matches to go. Meanwhile ‘Pamzo’ has confirmed they have lost hope of clinching their 20th League title this season saying their hopes came to an end when they slipped 2-1 against Tusker. ‘’I can for sure not lie. It is not possible at this time. We lost it all when we slipped to Tusker FC. I can say players are also not up in the game knowing very well that they are already into the Continentals after clinching the FKF Cup. ‘’ Gor is Kenya’s representative at the CAF Confederations Cup following a win against AFC Leopards in the FKF Cup finals. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy