The African continental football governing body CAF has written to Gor Mahia through the local Federation to show compliance with orders earlier issued by the body among other demands before they can be assured of playing in the CAF Confederations Cup. Club Chairman Ambrose Rachier said they received the communication last evening which required the club to clarify whether or not they had agreed with players who left the club and sued them for failing to pay them their dues. ‘’CAF wants us to show compliance before we can be cleared to play at the CAF Confederations Cup. They want assurance that we have settled debts we owe our former players and a tactician who reported us for failing to pay them after leaving the club,’’ said Rachier. The communication also wants Gor to produce audited accounts of the club for the past year and also the list of the technical bench staff with their qualifications. Rachier did not however mention how far they had gone with the settlement even though he said he is optimistic Gor will play in the continental tournament. CAF had written to Football Kenya Federation earlier demanding that all teams due to participate in the continentals were required to be compliant among other issues clearing with players who left the club and raised complaints. In an earlier Interview, Rachier had indicated that they would talk to Tanzanian Dickson Ambundo who the club owes close to Ksh.1.3 million and which the club had been ordered to pay. Also Read: ‘’Yes we owe Ambundo and we will see how to go about it before the CAF deadline. We also owe one of our former tacticians but we believe we will settle them in due course.’’ The chairman said CAF indicated that only after compliance would Gor be allowed to participate in the continental show-piece in which they won the sole ticket reserved for Kenya after winning the FKF Cup. Meanwhile, Rachier has said CAF has not made any official communication about the African Super League despite information that Gor would be among the 20 teams picked as permanent members of the approved annual competition. Rachier says they are waiting for the communication before deciding on the way forward. ‘’This Super League news has not reached us officially. CAF is yet to hand us any official communication. We are awaiting their brief before we can decide on the way forward but definitely, it is a good idea,’’ explained Rachier. Gor Mahia were named among the 20 permanent team members of the annual competition which will be played for the first time in Africa in history. Despite the failure of the European Super League project, African football governing body CAF has approved the competition and are in talks with different broadcasters to partner with the project. According to Rachier, the challenge will not be congestion of matches but the financial ability to honor these matches unless fully sponsored. ‘’Match congestions will not be an issue since other countries will also be playing in their home Leagues. The challenge will be how to honor such fixtures in case they will not be fully catered for by CAF.’’ Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy