Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi has now dismissed calls from some political quarters to have the August 2022 elections pushed forward. Mudavadi, speaking at a meeting with the Bishop of Nakuru Catholic Diocese Moris Muhatia on Sunday, urged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to ensure the next General Elections proceed as per the timeline stipulated in the Constitution. The ANC party boss urged the Wafula Chebulati-led team not to bend to any political pressure saying “the law must be followed and adhered to at all times.” Mudavadi also called upon the church to remain non-partisan in political engagements and speak the truth in order to lead Kenyans in making the right choice in next year’s General Election. He urged the clergy to preach peace and not to allow their pulpits to be used by political leaders as a platform to play divisive politics. “The church should speak the truth and point out where things are going wrong. By so doing, it will help in leading Kenyans to the right path,” he said. Also Read: The presidential hopeful called on the government to solve all land issues, for instance between Nakuru and the Rift Valley, that have been the root cause of chaos during electioneering periods. “Unresolved land issues have been the source of conflicts in this region leading to terrible ethnic clashes that claim lives. The State should resolve the land issues before elections to avoid clashes. Historical land injustices bestride the area too,” he said. He further said the country’s economy needs to be fixed and that, if elected, his administration will ensure Kenya is turned from consumption to a production economy that will create jobs for its people. Bishop of the Nakuru Catholic Diocese Moris Muhatia called on the Amani leader to maintain peace in his campaigns even as he expressed fears that seeds of discord have started to be sown by merchants of divisive politics. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy