Gor Mahia’s vice-captain Philemon Otieno has said the departure of two key players from the camp is a big setback to the team. Speaking to Citizen Digital, Otieno said the players namely Kenneth Muguna and Charles Momanyi were instrumental in Gor’s delivery hence their action leaving a big gap. ‘’It is truly a big blow to the team. These were two key players and they have left…. the head coach too left at a time when the season is still on. It is a big challenge but we are focused and can still go places,’’ said Otieno. The long-serving Gor defender says in any game of football, the midfield and defense are key hence the departure means a re-organization from what had been the norm in the starting line-up. The right-back said: “I believe those left in the squad will have to pull up their socks and match or even better the standards set by the two who have left for greener pastures.” Kenneth Muguna has since penned a two-year deal with the 2019 CECAFA Kagame Cup runners-up Azam of Tanzania with the contract commencing on August 1, 2021. Also Read: In the agreement, Muguna was still to feature for Gor till the end of July, meaning he is likely to make his last appearance during the Mashemeji Derby on August 31. On the other hand, Charles Momanyi has since been released after requesting the club to release him. He is reportedly headed to Tusker FC. Meanwhile, Otieno has hinted at a juicy Mashemeji Derby despite going seven league matches without a win. According to Otieno, matches pitting the two sides is of great importance. ‘’We will have our own approach and we are focussed on a win-win mentality and nothing else. Even with the departure of the two players and the head coach, we will still play like there is no other match ahead of us,’’ added Philemon. According to the vice-captain, their seven-match poor league run should not be used to judge them in the run-up to the derby. The Saturday Mashemeji derby will determine whether AFC Leopards will break Gor’s six-year run without losing three points to the big cat. Leopards have never beaten Gor since 2016 in all competitions with Gor either winning or spoils being shared. With Gor’s current form raising eyebrows amongst club fans, they will probably need to deploy services of a more qualified tactician ahead of the CAF Confederations Cup in which they will represent the country next season. But coach Sammy Omollo is not worried saying in a previous interview that he will always use the players at his disposal saying many young talents at the camp have displayed high standards of football hence likely to fit in the shoes of the two layers who have decamped to other teams. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy