AFC Leopards have now lost both the CAF Champions League and Confederations Cup tickets to league leaders Tusker and defending champions Gor Mahia respectively and now what remains of them? The twelve-time league champions have no option now but to go for the 2020-2021 league title if at all they are determined to salvage their season after the 4-1 loss on penalties after a barren draw at Nyayo National Stadium in the Cup final yesterday. A title miss for Leopards this season will be translated as a below-average performance for the Chairman Shikanda-led executive and this will put their rivals on standby to flex them out through club elections. Leopards head coach Patrick Aussems has congratulated bitter rivals Gor Mahia winning the FKF Cup. The Belgian has however blamed the referee Peter Waweru for denying them what he said was a clear penalty. “We had opportunities and we tried to play good football and not the long balls. We had our chances in front of goal but unfortunately, we did not put the ball behind the net like it has been this season. I would like to congratulate Gor Mahia for their win,” Aussems said. Positives for Leopards Also Read: Despite financial constraints, the team has undergone this season, the head coach Aussems has ensured his boys reach the Cup finals to only fall on shoot out penalties. Ingwe are sitting third on the log with 40 points just seven behind leaders Tusker and with 10 matches remaining, Aussems can help them win the title for the first time in two decades. Aussems fielded youngsters Brian Wanyama from Leopards academy and Lewis Bandi for their first Mashemeji derby and their display spells a bright future for the team. Wanyama impressed the Belgian in the Kariobangi Sharks league clash on Wednesday and this enabled him to force his way into the starting line-up in which he did not disappoint especially against the league defending champions. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy