A middle-aged woman was shot in the abdomen at the Kiminini market on Friday morning on suspicion of being Corporal Caroline Kangogo, the fugitive cop who is on the run after executing two men in Nakuru and Kiambu counties. According to a police report obtained by Citizen Digital, the woman, Phanice Chemutai of Kaboiywo village, had allegedly been bugging Ken Muyondo, a licensed firearm holder, to meet in the market. According to the report, Mr Muyundo reported the incident to the Kiminini police station, where he said he suspected the caller to be the rogue cop and himself to be her next victim. Mr. Muyondo is said to have fired a single shot during the planned meeting at the said market to warn the said woman. The woman would be arrested shortly after. “The OCS arranged a team and laid a trap and the lady met with the reportee who fired a single shot to scare her and she was arrested,” the police report says. Following her interrogation, she told the police officers that she had met Mr. Muyondo several days earlier at the same market, where they exchanged numbers, prompting her to call several times. The officers would also discover a bullet wound on her lower abdomen while frisking her. She was then transferred to Kitale County Referral Hospital for treatment. “The pistol ceska mini belonging to the said Ken Muyundo with one magazine loaded with 10 rounds of 9 by 18mm and one spent cartridge have been retrieved and held as exhibit,” the police report says. The incident was confirmed by Transzoia Police Commander Fredrick Ochieng, who stated that Mr. Oyundo erred in discharging his weapon because he suspected the woman to be the officer on the run. “Haimaniishi sababu umepigiwa na mtu anaitwa Chemutai na kusemekana ati yeye ni dangerous, ati unafyatua risasi,” Trans Nzoia County Police Commander Fredrick Ochieng said on Friday “Hata kama umeona ni yeye, haufai kufyatua risasi,hata polisi, kuna kitu inaitwa justifiable circumstances” Meanwhile, a multi-agency team is on the trail of a rogue police officer who is said to have trained as a sharpshooter and is on the run after allegedly killing two men. Detectives believe she has traversed at least six counties since committing the crimes, managing to stay on the loose with a contingent of security agents hot at her tail. Her most recent sightings have been in Eldoret on Thursday, and later in Kericho where her phone signal was picked; it is suspected that she used someone else’s phone to call her friend while on a PSV vehicle. Detectives also believe she travelled to Kisii targeting her next victim; a doctor. Her phone signal had also been traced to Iten in Elgeyo Marakwet where she hails from Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy