Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has announced that the process of upgrading of Kianyaga hospital to a level four facility will commence in a month’s time. The governor said her administration has already allocated Ksh.150 million for the work. The expanded hospital will be equipped with modern diagnostic medical equipment to handle specialized treatment in order to boost the implementation of the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) for the majority of people living in Gichugu sub-county and its environs. She spoke at African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa (AIPCA) in Kiandumu area of Gichugu constituency on Sunday. In affirming her commitment to leave a legacy in the health sector, Waiguru said she has prioritized improvement of health facilities to ensure access to affordable and quality medical services for the people of Kirinyaga. Apart from Kianyaga, the governor also said that Kimbimbi hospital will be upgraded to level four facility. “The new hospital will be a landmark project in Gichugu constituency, you will not need to go to Kerugoya or outside the county for treatment. All ailments will be treated here,” she said. The upgraded hospital will have a modern theatre, specialized maternity wards, expanded male and female wards among others. The two new hospitals come in the wake of near completion of Kerugoya Referral Hospital, a five-storey medical complex with best-in-class finishes. The facility has been hailed as one of its kind in the country due to its high-end standards. Once completed, the medical complex which is expected to be commissioned soon will have a fully equipped ICU and a HDU with a capacity of at least 15 beds, an outpatient wing, modern theatres, emergency and casualty department, pediatric, surgical and medical wards, counseling and palliative care units, pharmacy, CT scan and X-ray. It will have specialist consultations, with a general surgeon, pediatricians, ENT, physician, obstetrician and gynecologist among others. The medical complex which has an estimated 340 –bed capacity will also have an oxygen plant to enable piping of oxygen to all the beds. Several other medical facilities among them health centres and dispensaries which have been refurbished or expanded are lined up for operationalization. They include; Joshua Mbai dispensary and laboratory, Kiamugumo, Kiandai, Kiamwathi, Kavote, Ndaba and Kianjiru dispensaries among others.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy