Gor Mahia shot-stopper Mathew Otieno Gad has said he was confident KÓgalo would lift the Football Kena Federation Cup when he saw the match headed to spot-kicks. According to Gad, he had done a lot of homework and was never bothered when the match ended in a barren draw. Gad who has since his arrival at Gor this season displaced Boniface Oluoch between the sticks, saved two penalties in yesterday’s 4-1 win in the final to keep Leopards waiting longer for continental football. ‘’When the match ended in a draw, I saw our opponents bring in their preferred spot-kick stopper but I was never worried since I was well prepared. I am happy I played my role successfully and helped my club lift the trophy,’’ explained Gad. He saved Captain’s Isaac Kipyegon and Said Tsuma’s spot-kicks to earn K’Ogalo the sole CAF Confederations ticket reserved for Kenya. The youthful keeper said penalty-taking entails training, confidence and composure. “As a goalkeeper, you need to carefully read the motive of the penalty taker and have the confidence and get composed before the shot. That way, a goalkeeper can easily save more shots,” he noted. Also Read: Gad’s popularity in saving spot-kicks started with his CAF Champions League knockout debut when he saved APR’s Jacques Tuyisenge’s penalty at Nyayo Stadium to help Gor prevail over the Rwandese Soldiers. In the run-up to yesterday’s finals, Gad stopped Thika-based side Bidco United from the spots after the two teams settled for a one-all in the semis to book a Mashemeji derby final. The former Kariobangi Sharks keeper says he has been lucky with this tournament since twice as Sharks, keeper, they managed to reach the finals. Gad says he is targeting a national team call-up but is in no hurry saying everyone is able to judge his ability. ‘’For the national team call-up, I can say that is my wish but I leave it to God. Everyone is seeing my performance but currently, I want to help Gor win this season’s title.” Gor’s win yesterday ended speculation of who will join Tusker in representing Kenya at the Continental level after the brewers won the sole ACF Champions League ticket with Gor now becoming Kenya’s flag bearers at the CAF Confederations Cup. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy