The families of five men abducted by unknown men from Nyeri County in the past 5 days are calling on the government to step in and find their kin. The five were abducted in dramatic fashion with two being taken at gun point in broad daylight. The first to be taken was 34-year-old Isaac Mwangi who was traveling with his wife and their one- year-old daughter when two vehicles blocked their way and 6 men took away the man. “He (one of the thugs) asked me if I know how to drive and I told him I don’t, he got into our car and started driving us away…then they took my husband into their Subaru Forester and told me ‘huyu tunaenda na yeye tuone kama tutaskizana,’” said Mwangi’s wife. It was the last time she saw him, with the gangsters leaving her and her daughter with their car by the road side. But hours later, after she made her way back to Narumoru, she was confronted with news of another abduction, this time of their employee Wilson Wairimu at a pub they own. Also Read: “When we came back, we did not go home  straight, I went to my husband’s place of work to get the security guard to take me home…when I got there I was told he was taken by some unknown men at around 7:30, that got me even more confused,” she stated. Two days later, she was third time unlucky; as they travelled with her larger family after making inquiries about her husband in Ndaragwa, they were stopped by a car with gun-wielding men who ordered out two of her relatives. The two brothers, Bernard Wanjohi and Samuel Ngacha, are cousins to her husband. “A grey Probox blocked us, they lowered the window and corked a gun at us… I went completely blank…they opened the front door and took the driver first,” she added. The families say they have no idea why they were taken and they have no information from the police. “If they’re being held by kidnappers, nobody has called us to ask for money…the police have not given us any information so we’re in total darkness, we just want our family members back,” she stated. On Tuesday, another businessman Gerald Gwandaru was abducted by unknown men. No one knows his whereabouts, four days later. The family members say they believe the police could be behind the abductions and are calling on government to come out and clear the air. Police officers who declined to speak on record said the incidents are under investigation.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy