The Ugandan State House has released the results of a test for the legitimacy of a sample of COVID-19 vaccines, confirming that hundreds of Ugandans received water shots disguised as vaccines. Several Ugandan publications reported that more than 800 people and an unspecified number of clients from various companies in the Kampala Metropolitan area received bogus Covid-19 vaccinations. According to Dr Warren Naamara, the director of the State House Health Monitoring Unit, the suspects, including a doctor who is currently on the run, duped several people and companies and injected them with fake vaccines between May 15 and June 17. State House detectives arrested two nurses from Nakawa, Kampala, on suspicion of vaccinating people with a phony vaccine and remanded them in Kitalya Prison. On Monday, Dr Naamara stated that a number of suspected fake Covid-19 vaccine vials had been sent to the Directorate of Government Analytical Laboratory in Wandegeya and the National Drug Authority (NDA) for analysis. The NDA sent the suspected bogus Covid-19 sample to Serum Institute of India, a manufacturer of vaccines and immunobiologicals, for comparison with genuine vaccines. The Serum Institute of India confirmed that the previously mentioned batch was never supplied to Uganda. It also confirms that the product label information was forged. The Government Analytical Laboratory also confirmed that the seized vaccines did not resemble genuine vials. “The fake vaccines were more of water than anything else from the chemical contents as it was analysed,” he said. Dr. Naamara stated that the people who received the fake vaccinations should understand that they are not poisoned and are not in danger. “All persons and cooperate companies who were vaccinated at a fee, especially within the premises of work by the suspect still at large are advised to get a free Covid-19 jab at the Ministry of Health approved vaccination centres ,” he said. The State House director also stated that the public should continue to receive vaccinations at Kiswa Health Centre IV because the forgery of those involved took place outside of the facility. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy