A suspected serial killer has been apprehended in Uasin Gishu after confessing to murdering five young girls after assaulting and defiling them. In a statement on Saturday, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said Evans Juma Wanjala- the suspect who carried out the heinous murders between December 31, 2019 and June 15, 2021- defiled his victims before strangling them to death. “The suspect lured the minors from various locations within Moi’s Bridge in Uasin-Gishu county, before transporting them to secluded areas where he defiled and strangled them,” the DCI said on Saturday. In a chilling confession given to detectives during a re-enactment of how he carried out his heinous missions, the killer detailed how he took the lives of five minors after defiling them. He also led detectives to the locations of each of his murders, where the charred remains of the murdered minors had previously been recovered. “In one such case, the decomposing body of a minor was discovered on June 15, 2021, near Baharini Dam, after she had gone missing a few days before,” the statement from the DCI reads. “The minor’s decomposing remains were discovered half dressed in a bush, with signs of strangulation, defilement, and physical injuries visible on her body, sparking protests along the busy Eldoret – Kitale highway,” According to the sleuths, all the murders were eerily similar; all the victims were defiled before being strangled to death and left in the bushes to be devoured by wild beasts. “In two such instances, the lifeless bodies of the victims were stashed in gunny-bags covered with vegetables and left to rot away in the bushes,” the police explained. During the re-enactment, Homicide detectives, assisted by Scenes of Crime, Photographic, and Acoustics counterparts, forensically documented each of the five murder scenes, as the executioner demonstrated how he abducted, defiled, murdered, and dumped the minors’ bodies. Further forensic analysis at the DCI forensic lab linked the suspect to the minors’ murders. Evans Juma is also a habitual offender with outstanding arrest warrants, according to detectives. The suspect defiled two minors in Kibwezi on various dates in 2018, and after being arraigned, he was released on bond. “After his release he immediately went into hiding prompting a warrant of arrest to be issued against him by the Makindu Law Courts,” the detectives said. The murder mystery was solved after homicide detectives from DCI headquarters traveled to Eldoret West and took over the various case files pertaining to the girls’ wanton defilement and murders. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy