Kenya Simbas ensured they stayed in contention for a place in the Rugby World Cup with a 45-8 demolition of Zambia during Sunday’s preliminary clash at the Nyayo National Stadium. Simbas began on high note and led 7-0 after Kabras Sugar utility John Kubu added the extras and captain Dan Sikuta made some fantastic runs towards the Zambian try box to earn a penalty. Kubu stepped up to convert and put Simbas 10-0 up. They preserved the advantage into the interval and soon extended their lead to 15-0 after some fantastic work Samuel Asati who set up Brian Tanga to score. Kubu’s barnstorming start to the match was highlighted by a blistering run from his own 22-yard area, sidestepping the Zambian defenders and finishing it off to make it 20-3 for Simbas. Dominic Hamish Coulson would take up the kicking duties slotting in the extras for a 22-3 scoreline. Kubu spotted a gap in the Zambia defence to score a drop goal for a 25-3 score. Being the flyhalf Kubu again would ochestrate yet another genius move that saw him dance his way past the Zambians as they greased tackle after tackle to a slippery Kubu who offloaded the ball to Darwin Mukidza who set up a ruck. The ruck would result to Onsomu setting up the ball to Kubu who dummied his way to the try box for a 32-3 score. Coulson adding the extras for a 35-3 lead heading to the interval’s Soon after the break George Nyambua would get his second try of the day after the Simba’s charged to the Zambia trybox. 42- 3 scoreline after Couslon added the extras Zambia would get a consolation try deep in the second half for a 42-8 scoreline but was not enough for the visitor’s to stage a comeback. Veteran flanker and KCB player Davis Chenge was stretchered off with a neck injury sustained after a Zambia defender malicious tackled him as he tried to register a try to his name. Both teams tried their luck as they searched for a last try of the game but it was not meant to be as the center referee indicated the end of the mouth watering fixture. 42-8 final score. Simba’s now qualify for the next stage of the qualifier sailing through as Pool B runner’s up behind Senegal. The top two teams will proceed to the last eight (knockout stage) which will be the Rugby Africa Cup 2022 and the World Cup qualifiers final round. Deputy President William Ruto flanked by Sport’s Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed graced the occasion. Footballers Jesse Were and John Makwata were also present. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy