National Super League (NSL) side Mully Children’s Family (MCF) head coach Robert Arasa has reassured the club’s faithful they will fight until the end of the season to realize automatic promotion. The team’s impressive display after the league restart saw them move to within a touching distance of the top three positions but have since dropped to number eight on the log after failing to register a win in their last five games. While attributing their recent struggles to injuries to their key players, Arasa says interruptions in the league fixtures have also not helped their cause as it often rattles their momentum. “Our initial ambition was to finish among the best three sides in the division at the end of the season. “I’m confident we will achieve that because our injured players have returned and they can inspire us to rekindle our earlier form again,” he said, adding that, “We hope that the fixtures will have some consistency to avoid the inconveniences that we have faced in the past.” Their weekend 2-2 draw against struggling Migori Youth perhaps underlined their recent struggles after they allowed their visitors to peg them back twice as they eventually shared the spoils. Also Read: Elsewhere, Mwatate United tactician Andrew Kanuli has expressed his delight after his side recorded their second consecutive victory, a narrow 2-1 victory, against Coast Stima on Sunday to go sixth on the log. Kanuli says they will approach every game like a final as they eye a promotion ticket. “I’m happy because the boys have played well in our last game against Soy and Stima as the results indicate. “The big challenge that we want to overcome is consistency. The NSL is very competitive this season but we want to be at a safer place in terms of promotion slots.” On Friday they will host league leaders FC Talanta who overcame Modern Coast Rangers 2-1 on Sunday to reclaim top position. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy