A day-long meeting of the One Kenya Alliance tried to craft a formula for picking its presidential candidate ahead of the 2022 general election. The alliance that brings together KANU Party Leader Gideon Moi, Ford Kenya Party leader Moses Wetangula, Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka and and Party leader Musalia Mudavadi failed to agree on the matrix to select their presidential flag bearer. Insider sources indicated the subject which became contentious was shelved given the One Kenya Alliance is still at its infant stages. Sources close to proceedings at the boardroom meeting say a faction of the team pushed for seniority in the pecking order as a formula to arrive at the One Kenya Alliance flagbearer. This was rejected by a group that preferred a scientific research conducted by possibly an international firm to arrive at the best candidate who has the numbers, influence and charisma. A position held by ANC’s senator Cleophas Malala. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja warning the principals to ready their supporters that they might not make it to the One Kenya Alliance ticket but assure them of being in government Proving a hard nut to crack, the alliance shelved the talks to build consensus and popularise the outfit before embarking on picking of its candidate. This while leaving a window of opportunity for a possible engagement with the Orange Party Leader Raila Odinga to be enjoined in the alliance. While One Kenya Aliance continues to buy time, Deputy President William Ruto continues his onslaught and campaigns across the country as the most preferred presidential candidate The leaders have resolved to make official their divorce with the National Super Alliance (NASA). Insiders claimed three out of the four NASA parties, that is Ford Kenya, ANC and wiper have resolved to write to the registrar of political parties to resign from NASA and occasion its collapse. This as KANU is set to walk out of the Jubilee Party alliance to shift energies to the One Kenya Alliance. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy