The National Police Service has been tasked with ensuring that the ban on all forms of gathering is strictly enforced throughout the country. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, speaking at the Harambee House on Friday, stated that all police  have been given strict orders to ensure that the new protocols are followed. “Mine is instructions to commanders and members of the police service,” IG Mutyambai said on Friday “With effect from today all measures stepped up and enforced. We urge members of the public to cooperate with the police” For their own safety, Kenyans should avoid all gatherings, particularly political ones, according to the police chief. “Stay away from these banned gatherings to keep yourself safe, safe from COVID-19 and from the enforcement measures. “ Meanwhile, the government has raised concerns about the rise of COVID-19 infections, saying that the more virulent delta form has spread to other counties. Also Read: Kenya’s positivity rate is currently at 13 percent, the highest in as many days. Kenyans must heed the warnings, according to Health Ministry Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe, or the health-care system will be overwhelmed. The CS during a briefing on Friday announced a ban on all gathering and an indefinite extension of the existing curfew hours. According to CS Kagwe, events, especially political ones had emerged as superspreaders. “When you call a political gathering in a street where people are many is it super spreading. There is no point in carrying the rallies, then we have more deaths then we go to the funerals and then cause more deaths,” CS Kagwe said. While places of worship have been allowed to operate, the Ministry of Health urged the relevant parties to ensure compliance with  MoH guidelines. Meanwhile, employers have been asked to allow employees to work from home, with the exception of those in crucial sectors. Burials will have to be carried out within 72 hours following death confirmation, according to the new containment measures. According to CS Kagwe, the Ministry of Interior would convene meetings to discuss the best ways to ensure that just the 50 guests allowed at funerals are present. According to Kagwe, one of the ways that advances gained in the pandemic fight were being lost was through crowding at funerals. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy