Ahead of the hotly contested Kiambaa by election, occassioned by the death of Paul Koinange, political parties seeking to fill the vacant space have pitched tent in the constituency. Six aspirants vying for the seat continue to traverse the constituency in a bid to woo residents to vote for them Jubilee party candidate Kariri Njama in the company of several Jubilee MPs toured Ruaka area where they expressed confidence that they will take the seat. “Tumeamua Kiambaa ni Kariri Njamba, chama ni Jubilee, rais ni Uhuru na sisi ndio wenye kura,” Peter Mwathi, the Limuru MP said on Saturday. Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny expressed confidence that Jubilee would carry the day, saying the electorate would back Jubilee which they have known for the last six years. “Watu wetu wamekamata wamesema nyumba ambayo imejengwa hailaliki wamezoea nyumba ambayo wameishi kwa zaidi ya miaka sita,” Kuttuny said. Also Read: Former Nairobi County Speaker Beatrice Elachi asked the voters to show up in their droves to cast their vote for the Jubilee candidate. The Jubilee candidate exuded confidence in the campaigns, saying the party now awaits their day at the by election. The leaders also rallied residents to continue supporting the Jubilee party insisting the party is strong under the leadership of President Kenyatta … “Kama wanataka nyinyi mpigie UDA wa resign Jubilee waingie UDA ndio muueze kupigia UDA,” Dennis Waweru the Chairman, BBI Secretariat said. Nyeri town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu implored the voters to stay put, and steer clear of deceptive politics because those under the UDA party are still within the ruling party. “Msikubali kudanganywa na viongozi ambao wamechaguliwa pahali ingine hao viongozi wako kwa chama cha Jubilee, ile bunge sisi tuko hakuna mtu yoyote ako kwa hiyo chama msikubali mpangishwe line mtolewe kwa serikali,” Wambugu said. Meanwhile, the UDA affiliated leaders have insisted that the by-elections in Kiambaa and Muguga ward will be used as a mirror of next year’s general elections … “We have confidence with IEBC because they conducted the Rurii and Juja by-election very well,” Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said. The IEBC has assured all aspirants that preparations are in top gear to ensure a smooth process. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy