Gad Matthews saved two penalties to set Gor Mahia FC on path for a 4-1 shootout victory over derby rivals AFC Leopards during Sunday’s FKF Cup final at the Nyayo National Stadium. The match ended in a barren draw after an uneventful 90 minutes and headed straight to penalties where Gor prevailed after converting all their spot-kicks on the day. Sydney Mahongo, Kenneth Muguna, Cliftone Miheso and Samuel Onyango all beat goalkeeper Ezekiel Owade who was brought on in the final minute for penalty duties but ultimately failed to stop a single one. Mathews thwarted Issac Kipyegon and Said Tsuma with Washington Munene dispatching Ingwe‘s only successful penalty. Only a handful of spectators were allowed to grace the occasion at Nyayo as two of the most successful teams in the country battled it out for a chance for their first silverware of the campaign. Also on offer for the winner was a ticket to next season’s CAF Confederation Cup and the stakes were even higher with the CAF Champions League slot already claimed by Tusker FC. Also Read: Gor wore their traditional green and white colors while Leopards donning their away kits – orange shirts and black shorts. Leopards possessed the game in the entire first half with danger man Elvis Rupia rattling the woodwork after wriggling past Frank Odhiambo in the opening minutes. Gor’s left back Geoffrey Ochieng was given a run for his money speedy winger Harrison Mwendwa’s sensational combination with derby debut youngster Brian Wanyama. K’Ogalo scare came in the 29th minute with Odhiambo putting Tito Okelo through but his effort was blocked by Kipyegon whose tireless display was overshadowed by his penalty miss. Another derby newcomer Lewis Bandi made a clinical run ins to the opponents territory feeding Rupia a fine pass but he misfired. After restart, former Leopards employee Clifton Miheso put through Okello with the goalie to beat but Kipyegon swift reaction cleared it for a corner. Ingwe felt they were denied by referee Peter Waweru in the 60th minute after Harun Shakava brought down Elvis Rupia in the area in what had appeared to be a clear penalty. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy