With five Kenya Cup games lined up Nandi County is expected to host two of the rugby fixtures in an action packed afternoon. Newly promoted Masinde Muliro University will be looking to educate Kenya Harlequins when the two teams face off at the Nandi Bears club in a noon kick off fixture. MMUST bagged their second win of the season after edging out hosts Impala Saracens in Nairobi over the weekend with the victory being a morale booster heading to the Kenya Harlequins. The win against Saracens propelled the Kakamega based side to eighth position in the standings with eight points from two wins registered. Second placed Kabras Sugar will thereafter take on Menengai Oilers and with both teams currently on top form, the Rai derby offers a lot of promise. Oilers who are coached by former Kenya Sevens utility Gibson Weru are currently placed third on the standings with 17 points and a win against Kabras Sugar will see them leapfrog their oppponents. Also Read: However no fans will be allowed to cheer on their teams due to the Covid-19 health precautions set by the Ministry of Health. Back in Nairobi Kenya Cup defending champions KCB Rugby will host Mwamba RFC at the KCB Sports Club with the champions looking to cement their place at the summit. The Bankers reclaimed the top spot of the Kenya Cup after a narrow 22-19 win against Menengai Oilers in a match played at the ASK Showground, Nakuru. The Curtis Olago charges have accumulated 28 points from six games, three points ahead of Kabras Sugar who have played five games. At the RFUEA grounds Strathmore Leos will host Top Fry Nakuru in an early kick off fixture with Leos looking forward to register their third win of the season after edging out Blak Blad 25-10 in last weekend’s fixture. Courtesy of their win Leos climbed up to fifth position and clearly out of the relegation zone with 11 points to their name. 1:00 pm will be the exact timings for this fixture. Relegation placed teams Blab Blad and Nondescripts RFC will lock horns in the last fixture of the day with both teams hoping to register their first wins of the season come tomorrow. Ngong road based Impala Saracens RFC will take a rest as they go back to the drawing and strategies on the upcoming games after a second loss of the season to MMUST during last weekend’s fixture. They are currently placed fourth with 11 points despite the defeat. Kenya Cup Saturday Masinde Muliro v Kenya Harlequin – 12pm, Nandi Bears
Strathmore Leo’s v Top Fry Nakuru -1pm, RFUEA Ground
Kabras Sugar v Menengai Oilers – 12pm, Nandi Bears
Nondescripts v Blak Blad – 3pm, RFUEA Ground
KCB v Mwamba- 3pm, KCB Sports Club
Impala Saracens rest Kenya Cup Standings
1. KCB RFC -28 points
2. Kabras Sugar RFC -25 points
3. Menengai Oilers RFC -19 points
4. Impala Saracens RFC -11 points
5. Strathmore Leos RFC -11 points
6. Top Fry Nakuru RFC -10 points
7. Kenya Harlequin RFC -9 points
8. Mwamba RFC-8 points
9. MMUST RFC -8 points
10. Blak Blad RFC -7 points
11. Nondescripts RFC -5 points Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy