Kiambaa was tense on Sunday as political campaigns pitted the Jubilee Party against the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) parties ahead of the much-anticipated mini-election. Both parties were competing for the Karuri Primary School grounds, where they planned to hold campaign rallies. The Ruto-affiliated UDA claimed to have paid the School for the grounds in May, but by Saturday night, Jubilee had set up several tents in the field. Police officers alerted to the impending crash were dispatched to the grounds, which were cordoned off around midday, putting the planned rallies on hold. Karuri Police Commander Ali Nano later announced that the planned rallies at the grounds had been canceled. Without a home stretch, the two parties, who are currently locked in high-stakes campaigns, took to the streets ahead of the June 15 election. Also Read: Six candidates are vying for the seat left open by the death of former MP Paul Koinange. On Saturday, Jubilee party candidate Kariri Njama in the company of several Jubilee MPs toured Ruaka area where they expressed confidence that they would take the seat. Tumeamua Kiambaa ni Kariri Njamba, chama ni Jubilee, rais ni Uhuru na sisi ndio wenye kura,” Peter Mwathi, the Limuru MP said on Saturday. Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny expressed confidence that Jubilee would carry the day, saying the electorate would back Jubilee which they have known for the last six years. “Watu wetu wamekamata wamesema nyumba ambayo imejengwa hailaliki wamezoea nyumba ambayo wameishi kwa zaidi ya miaka sita,” Kuttuny said. Meanwhile, the UDA affiliated leaders who are confident of an easy win, insisted that the by-elections in Kiambaa and Muguga ward would be used as a mirror of next year’s General Elections. “We have confidence with IEBC because they conducted the Rurii and Juja by-election very well,” Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said. The IEBC has assured all aspirants that preparations are in top gear to ensure a smooth process. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy