In the last 24 hours, the COVID-19 positivity rate has jumped to a worrying 18 per cent, sparking fears of a new wave. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe says the current spike has been driven in large part by politicians. The latest spike comes nearly 500 days since COVID-19 was detected in the country, the ministry now alarmed that the virus that had appeared subdued for several months, is bouncing back with a vengeance. On 22nd July the positivity rate recorded was 13.7%, the next day 23rd July it was 11.4% , 24th July the rate was 13.9%, 25th july 12.2%, 26th July 13.5 %, 27th 14.2%  and in the last 24 hours the number has jumped to an alarming 18.0%. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe says there is reason to worry. “People are talking about a 4th wave we never got out of third wave… What we are experiencing is spike in cases at positivity rate of 11 percent,” said Kagwe. Kagwe adding that the prevailing situation has been worsened by the  highly infectious delta variant that is also resulting in more severe symptoms. Also Read: With many health facilities already stretched as the number of those requiring hospitalisation rises, Kagwe is pointing an accusing finger at the political class, blaming the increasing  gatherings for the upsurge. “We are appealing to the political class to please be sensitive, to the situation that is currently in play, we are also asking citizens to please avoid those political gatherings…,” he said. The CS now wants county governments to put up oxygen plants to forestall the looming shortage. “We are already see an increase in demand for ICU beds, oxygen requirements, we had gone down to 100 but now we have 400 people needing oxygen…,” he said. In his last address to the nation on the status of coronavirus in the country, President Uhuru Kenyatta warned that the government may be forced to review some of the relaxed containment measures if the COVID-19 situation in the country deteriorated. “We will not hesitate to bring back the rules, we have to be responsible…,” said Kenyatta. The last 24 hours may be a trigger for tough times ahead after a total of 1,006 new infections were reported out of a sample size of 5,584. 13 deaths were also recorded pushing the death toll closer to the 4000 mark. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy