As track and field action at the Tokyo Olympics kicks off on Friday, the spotlight will be on the men’s 800m. This is so because a new champion will emerge. The two-time winner David Rudisha will not be defending his title opening the door for a new entrant to the throne. Rudisha, won back to back titles at the 2012 and 2016 Games,  the former a world record (1:49.01). And now the world will follow keenly to know  who will be crowned as the new  800m king at the Olympic Stadium, Tokyo over the two-lap race in the finals slated for August 4. The Kenyan trio of Michael Saruni, Emmanuel Korir and Ferguson Rotich will be seeking to extend Kenya’s dominance in the race that spans to over a decade since Wilfred Bungei’s victory in the 2008 Games. “I believe we have a very strong team, with Saruni and Rotich, I am optimistic we can sweep the podium and that is actually my prayer,” said Korir, bullish of Kenya’s continued dominance. Korir and Saruni are based in the US under the tutelage of legendary athlete Paul Ereng who won Kenya’s first gold medal at the Olympics over 800m at the 1988 Games. Also Read: Despite winning the Kenyan trials just over a month ago, Saruni remains coy on being the man to take the mantle from Rudisha. “I have been asked that question many times but for me I don’t have any pressure heading to Tokyo. When I came to the trials actually nobody expected me to win since I came with the sixth-best time and so for me I have no pressure at all,” said Saruni. Rotich, a World bronze medallist, will be banking on his experience to impress at the Tokyo Games having placed fifth at the last edition  held in Rio, Brazil. “It is the dream of every athlete to win a competition and for me I want to move a step at a time; first from the heats, to semis and then finals, and from there, aim for a podium finish in the finals,” said Rotich. The Kenyans will however be wary of Botswana’s Amos who recently recovered from an injury and warmed up for the Olympics with a win at the Monaco Diamond League meeting in a world lead of 1:42.91. “I can’t say anything about Amos because you never know what can happen in a competition. What I can promise is to do my best and come home with something,” said Korir who finished second behind Amos in Monaco. After leading Kenya to a silver medal at the World Relays in May following a bronze medal two years ago in Doha, Rotich is hopeful of making that a step better. “I think since I won bronze in Doha I have worked hard to improve and I am ready for the Tokyo Games,” he said. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy