The Kenya Under-20 team also known as the Chipu were able to successfully defend the 2021 Rugby Africa Barthes Cup tournament. A narrow 21-20 win over Madagascar in the last match of the campaign was enough for the Curtis Olago coached side in a fixture staged at the Nyayo Stadium. Chipu managed to score three tries and two penalties to retain the title. Madagascar on the other hand scored three tries, one conversion and a penalty. Chipu would kick off the game on a high note showing intent to defend the title. A maul by Chipu sawa Maxwell Atera score the try to cool the nerves. 5-0 scoreline after Matoka Matoka missed the extras. Also Read: Madagascar would match the physicality by Kenyans youngster’s with pacy winger Randriatiana  Francky Kefu just failing to convert his chances. Owain Ashley would offload the ball to a charging Matoka Matoka who sidestepped past the Madagascar Defence with Owain failing to convert. Barthes cup top scorer Matoka Matoka slotted in a penalty for a 13-0 scoreline. Madagascar would capitalise on their opportunity with flanker Rajeriarison Miaritanjona Michael bullied his way to the 22 yard of the Kenya defence with Randrianantenaina Erica Bruno offering support play to score their first try. The resultant conversion went wide. The try served as a wake-up call for the Makis who put up a strong display in the closing three minutes. The try would change the tempo of play for Madagascar with Setra Sanaipolu going over for try-line for a second try. The conversion was on target as the boys headed to the changing room, the scoreboard reading 13-12. Soon after the interval’s Simbas flyhalf Matoka would miss a much needed penalty. However Matoka would correct his mistake by converting a penalty kick for a 16-12 scoreline. Simbas captain John Baraka would ground the ball for a 21-12 in favour of the Curtis Olago coached side. Toward the end of the game, Kenya indicipline and lack of patient on defence would see them concede a yellow card that saw them be reduced to 14 men on the pitch. The card would result to a penalty which sawa Madagascar score a penalty to set up a cagy finish to the mouth watering game. However Kenya would hold on to successfully defend the title Results Kenya Lionesses 0 Madagascar 10 Kenya 21-20 Madagascar Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy