There was a moment of silence as DCI detectives, officers from the government chemist and parents of three victims of suspected serial killer Masten Wanjala gathered at the City Mortuary for the post-mortem exercise. The family of Junior Mutuku and Charles Opindo positively identified the bodies of their kin “Mtoto wakati nimemuangalia sehemu zote ziko sawa ni kichwa tu ndio nimeona imegongwa kidogo,” Opindo’s father said on Thursday. But the wait maybe longer for the family of Brian Omondi a 12-year-old football enthusiast who was allegedly taken by Wanjala from Majengo and lured to Lower Kabete and strangled before his body was dumped in a river. His family were not lucky in identifying the body. “Wakati mshukiwa alishikwa tukaanza kufuatilia kwa CID tukampaa picha alafu akatoa ripoti huyo mtoto anamjua na alimuua … Hiyo mwili nimeona sio huyo na nangoja DNA,” Grace Adhiambo, Omondi’s mother said. Hassan Suleiman is another worried parent from the same area who had to walk all the way to the city mortuary to check if his 8-year-old daughter Halima Hussein who disappeared in February was among the victims … “DCI wameniambia tulia hapo tutafanya uchunguzi lakini ile uchunguz tumefanya tumepata vijana tupu hakuna msichana … Mimi silali watoto wengine wananiuliza yani Halima alipotea tu hivyo,” Mr Suleiman said. After the conclusion of the exercise which was conducted by the chief government pathologist Dr. Johansen Odour it was revealed that two victims died as a result of strangulation and one was due to a blunt force head trauma … Elsewhere, a court in Eldoret has granted police 21 more days to complete investigations into the suspected killings allegedly perpetrated by Evans Wanjala in Moi’s bridge, Uasin Gishu County. Senior Resident Magistrate Naomi Wairimu also granted orders to police to exhume the body of Grace Njeri, who is alleged to be one of Wanjala’s victims. Njeri who was 12-years-old at the time of her murder was reported missing on May 21, 2020 and her decomposed body parts found on June 18, 2020 at Soronoi farm. The suspect last week led homicide detectives to five scenes where he is alleged to have commited the heinous crimes. Daniel Maru who was arrested alongside Wanjala has been released after police failed to find evidence linking him to the murders. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy