Confessed serial killer Masten Millimo Wanjala will be detained for 30 days after a Makadara Court granted police more time to complete investigation The suspect who was arraigned in court for a miscellaneous application, gave a chilling confession of how he has murdered more than 10 minors before dumping their bodies in thickets and sewer lines Investigating officers asked for 30 days to detain the minor and allow them to travel to the scenes the suspect confessed to have dumped the bodies The suspect will be detained at Buruburu police station after the homicide unit of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations took over the case. Wanjala is said to have murdered his young victims alone, sometimes sucking blood from their veins, according to a police report obtained by Citizen Digital. “The 20-year-old beast has for the past five years left families distraught and in anguish, clinging on the hope of finally reuniting with their children,” a police report seen by Citizen Digital explains He told cops that after executing the children, he would sometimes dump their bodies in Lower Kabete thickets or submerge them in city sewer lines. According to the detectives in charge of the case, Wanjala was only 16 years old when he executed his first victim, a 12-year-old girl he kidnapped in Machakos. “Maweu’s killing marked the beginning of a spate of child disappearances and executions, all of which the killer documented by date as detectives who experienced dreary times in the field discovered,” the police report says. He struck again in 2019, killing a 13-year-old boy in Kimilili. He told detectives that the killing sparked protests in Kamukuywa, with residents torching the home of a suspect in the boy’s death. In the most recent case, he enticed two boys in Kitengela and Mlolongo, before murdering them and dumping their bodies in a sewer line. “Their bodies are yet to be discovered. The forensic trail painstakingly pursued by our sleuths has placed the killer at the scene of every macabre killing that he masterminded,” detectives said on Wednesday. On Wednesday, he led detectives to Gitaruru in Kabete, where he had dumped the bodies of two boys who had been kidnapped from Majengo. Detectives have also determined that all of the murder victims were rendered unconscious by a white substance in powder and liquid form, which the victims were either forced to drink or sprayed with before being executed. “The murderer who is unapologetic over his actions told detectives that he derived a lot of pleasure from killing his victims,” the police report says. “As detectives pursue crucial leads to the recovery of the rest of the bodies, it is our belief that the criminal justice system will serve justice to the innocent souls and relieve the heavy hearts of the mourning parents, siblings and Kenyans in general.” Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy