Kenyan musicians, politicians, and industry stakeholders gathered on Tuesday at an event organized by the artists to express gratitude to the government for waiving taxes on their Skiza tunes earnings. The artists who are now exempt from the 25% excise duty claim that the move will significantly increase their earnings. Hundreds of local artists and politicians mingled at the event, which was held at the home of Royal Media Services owner SK Macharia in Gatang’a. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga was present, flanked on the side by a number of leaders, including Siaya Senator James Orengo and Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria. Others who graced the event are: Finance Committee Chair Gladys Wanga, Maoka Maore (Igembe North), Kanini Kega (Kieni) Maina Kamanda (Nairobi), and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth. According to the ODM party, the removal of the 20% excise duty, which Gladys Wanga lobbied for, will ensure Kenyan musicians benefit from their talents by ensuring higher returns from Skiza tunes and other platforms. Sagero is one of the most respected musician in entire Gusii. This song went viral when he performed it with Embarambamba during Churchill Show, Nyamira edition. This is the day Raila Odinga had come for Kikao 046. SK Macharia has done well to give them platform. #RailaInMuranga pic.twitter.com/yFSzKjRm7x — Abuga Makori EGH, MBE (@abuga_makori) July 27, 2021  Ben Githae, a vernacular musician in attendance, praised the President, ODM’s Raila Odinga, and Royal Media’s SK Macharia for giving the musicians a new lease on life. “We invited you here to celebrate the win we have received through the help we have received from his excellency the President, Prime Minister and Dr. SK Macharia,” Musician Ben Githae said on Tuesday. On the Skiza Platform artists will now receive 43 cents for each shilling earned, up from 16 cents previously. They have also asked telco behemoth Safaricom to consider adding another 9cts, bringing the total to 52. The musicians have also lobbied for an overhaul of Kenya’s copyright boards. The Creative and Talent Industry is taking over from white-collar jobs as a potentially good employer. Today as leaders and artistes meet in Muranga, it is important to note that artistes have been earning 41% (up from 16%) through Skiza Tunes.#RailaInMuranga pic.twitter.com/9ARpN80APE — Fidel Jesus™ (@FidelFidel6) July 27, 2021  The musicians have also advocated for a revamp of Kenya’s copyright boards in a move aimed at increasing their earnings. The latest follows lobbying by the Finance Committee chair Gladys Wanga who, while moving the amendments in the National Assembly, said artists have been getting very little from Skiza tunes while mobile operators take the lions share. “Our artistes in this country sweat blood to be able to record and play their music, and they are never rewarded… The reward is very small compared to the investment these young artistes make,” said Wanga, who is also the Homa Bay Woman Representative. Wanga’s amendment proposing exemption on excisable services supplied in Kenya by a mobile telecommunication service provider on the sale of a ring back tune to a subscriber. She further announced plans to bring an amendment to the Copyright Act which will see artistes take home the lion’s share when it comes to revenues from ringback tunes. Wanga pointed out that from the current sharing formula, it is the services providers retain a huge chunk of the revenue. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy