Kenyan political leaders have amplified calls for the disbandment of the copyright board as well as the Collective Management Organizations (CMOs) under it so as to ensure artistes properly get their dues. The leaders spoke on Tuesday during the Skiza Thanksgiving luncheon at the Ndakaini home of Royal Media Services (RMS) Chairman Dr. S.K Macharia in Murang’a County. Former Gatanga Member of Parliament Peter Kenneth appealed to former Prime Minister Raila Odinga to ensure disbandment of the board. He also urged musicians to reach out to Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, who lobbied for the removal of the 20% Skiza excise duty, with any other creative sector legislation proposals that they may have so as to help iron out the industry. “Kama kuna sheria zingine ambazo mnataka wanamuziki zitungwe, waheshimiwa wako hapa na Gladys Wanga hajachoka. That one year let us see what support the local industry can get,” said Kenneth. “Na niseme hivi nikikaa chini, hiyo copyright board mwachilie Jakom ameona imevunjwa leo. Akirudi Nairobi aende aone imevunjwa, so that you can have a friendly board that will help you.” Also Read: Peter Kenneth: Mambo ya bottom up approach ni kutunga sheria itakayosaidia walio chini, kuinuka. Wanaowaletea pesa, chungana nao. We want to be taught how to fish, not to be given fish. Jakom, tembea mlima Kenya, ili watu wakujue. Copyright board ivunjwe leo pic.twitter.com/IKN4SKkI66 — Citizen TV Kenya (@citizentvkenya) July 27, 2021  Igembe North MP Maoka Maore, on his part, pushed for the CMOs to be dispersed and collated under the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA). “Mimi ningeunga mkono tuwachane na hii kitu inaitwa copyright society, tuulize KRA iichukue. KRA inachukuanga 15% of the money they collect as administration fee,” said Maore. Maoka Maore: Tuwachane na copyright society, KRA ichukue. Agosti 2022, umekaribia, tusisahau umuhimu nchi hii imepata, Raila Odinga alipomsaidia Rais Kenyatta kupitia handshake, wenyewe tumrudishie shukrani. Political rewards are not found in heaven, they are found here pic.twitter.com/zqA5LTrDv4 — Citizen TV Kenya (@citizentvkenya) July 27, 2021  Artistes on Skiza Platform will now receive 43 cts from each shilling earned, up from 16cts before. They have appealed to @Safaricom_Care to also consider adding another 9cts to bring the total to 52. They have also asked for an overhaul of the Copyright Board.#RailaInMuranga — Edwin Sifuna (@edwinsifuna) July 27, 2021  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy