Kimilili Member of Parliament Didmus Wekesa Barasa beat up a contractor on Friday after the contractor attempted to bar him from commissioning the classes he had built until he was paid. Trouble started when the MP arrived at the Kamukuywa ward school to open the classes built by the National Government Constituency Development Fund, he discovered that the contractor had locked them. Stephen Masinde, popularly known as Steve Kay, and his colleague Ronald Graham Wafula, who had set up five classes at Baptist Lurare primary school in Kimilili constituency at a cost of 3.4 million, had asked the legislature to first clear their pay with them before opening the classes. Journalists were not exempt from the wrath of the MPs men. The two contractors claimed that their efforts to have Mr Barasa pay them have always been futile because he has avoided them. The two contractors said that their efforts to have Mr Barasa pay them have been futile as he has been dodging them. Also Read: “When we asked the MP to pay us he says that he does not pay contractors half of their money but he pays them full and he will do so and we shouldn’t be worried,” the contractor said on Friday. He went on: “I have closed this classes because they cannot begin to operate without me being paid as they will be spoiled by children and he might end up refusing to pay me completely” Mr Masinde claimed that the MP used police officers to intimidate other contractors by opening and handing over classes without payment and then refusing to pay. Mr Wafula stated that they had finished the classes to the required standard and that all they wanted was their pay. He said that the classes had been renovated and they were in a very bad state. Wamechi Joel, the school’s headteacher, stated that the school has had dilapidated and worn-out structures since its inception in 1973. He said they are happy with the contractor’s work and are confident the new comfort will help students perform better. The contractor has since filed a report at the Kimilili police station. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy