Gor Mahia captain Haron Shakava says they have no special plan to stop Kariobangi Sharks hitman Eric Kapaito when the two teams clash tomorrow in their FKF Kenyan Premier League match. Kapaito has been in fine form in recent league matches, scoring six goals in the last four games for the slum boys. Shakava insists there is more danger from the collective Sharks group, thus they can’t put all their focus in stopping one player. “Sharks has very dangerous players that we must be careful to stop, we can’t target only him. We have faced him previously and we know how to handle him,” said Shakava The defending champions are currently fifth in the league heading into tomorrow’s match and the captain has insisted on the importance of finishing the remaining seven games strongly. “We want to finish in a good position by the end of this season. We have tough matches remaining but we want to get maximum points in every game and see what happens at the end of the season,” noted Shakava. Also Read:  The experienced centre-back has meanwhile wished departing midfield maestro Kenneth Muguna well as he joins Tanzanian side Azam FC. “He has given his all in the two terms that he has played for Gor. He works hard and he is very dedicated in his work, I want to wish him well wherever he is going to and hope whoever takes his role will give his best to the club,” the captain told Citizen Digital. On Tuesday, Muguna penned a moving goodbye note to the K’Ogalo family, confirming his exit. “Looking at what I have achieved at Gor Mahia is so satisfying, I was lucky enough to play under great coaches and a great management as well. Thanks to the chairman and the whole management for the efforts they showed in renewing my contract which didn’t materialise because I felt I needed a new challenge. “Thanks for the years we spent together and I hope that we enjoy the remaining matches,” read part of Muguna’s statement on his official social media accounts. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy