A day after Citizen TV aired the plight of families of victims of suspected serial killer Masten Wanjala, well-wishers continue to come forward with offers of help for the families to bury their kin. Grace Adhiambo, Brian Omondi’s mother, can receive help through Shauri Moyo Volunteer Children’s Officer Anastacia Wanza of phone number: 0727 943 591. The family of 13-year-old Charles Opindo will gladly appreciate any kind of help through Tony Opindo of phone number: 0703 171 768. The family of Junior Mutuku Musyoki can receive help through Felista Wafua Musau of KCB account 1287 466 435. The families are in the process of raising funds. The remains of the body of 13-year-old Charles Opindo were identified by the family at the City Mortuary mid this month. Also Read: The deceased’s parents spoke of the distressing experience in the hands of a ransom seeker who kept Opindo’s father engaged on phone hoping they would reunite with their son, only for them to realize they may have sent over Ksh.2,800 to a criminal long after their son died. A Nairobi court has since detained Masten Wanjala, the confessed serial killer, for 30 days granting police more time to complete investigations. The suspect who was arraigned in court for a miscellaneous application on July 15, 2021 gave a chilling confession of how he has murdered more than 10 minors and dumped their bodies in thickets and sewer lines. Investigating officers asked for 30 days to detain the suspect and travel to the scenes the suspect confessed to have dumped the bodies. Wanjala is being detained at Buruburu Police Station after the homicide unit of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) took over the case. Wanjala is said to have murdered his young victims alone, sometimes sucking blood from their veins, according to a police report seen by Citizen Digital. “The 20-year-old beast has for the past five years left families distraught and in anguish, clinging on the hope of finally reuniting with their children,” read the report. He told cops that after executing the children, he would sometimes dump their bodies in Lower Kabete thickets or submerge them in city sewer lines. According to the detectives in charge of the case, Wanjala was only 16 years old when he executed his first victim, a 12-year-old girl he kidnapped in Machakos.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy