Vihiga Queens head coach Alex Alumira has said he fears competition from Ethiopia, Tanzania and Uganda clubs ahead of the Cecafa Club Championship cum CAF Women’s Champions League Zonal qualifiers later this month in Nairobi. The championship is scheduled to begin on July 17 Kenya being the hosts and it will double up as qualification for the inaugural CAF Women Club Champions League to be held in Morocco later this year. Speaking exclusively to Citizen Digital, Alumira said they have put focus on the upcoming tournament expressing competitive fear from the participating clubs in the East Africa region. “We are continuing with our preparations well after failing to clinch the Women Premier League title. We always have two training sessions each day whereby we focus more on body fitness and other areas. Yes, we may have clinched the Women title three times in a row but sincerely speaking there will be a very tough competition in the Cecafa tournament. We expect the tough competition from clubs from Uganda, Ethiopia and Tanzania. They always play good football and have talented players too. Simba who features in Tanzania Premier League are also tough side to beat and any team which will be seeded against them must be well prepared.” Said Alumira As the tournament approaches, Alumira however has added that he will rely on the current squad he has in the team and no plans have been rolled for new recruits. Also Read: “We had earlier planned to sign three or four players to bolster the squad ahead of the tournament but since the Corona virus pandemic struck the country, life has become hard and we weren’t able to achieve the plan. In results, I have decided to rely on the players I have currently. “They are good players who have shown determination and believe form the just ended premier league campaign. Our aim if to be crowns the champions so as to represent this region in the inaugural CAF women’s club champions League.” Vihiga Queens failed to defend the league title they have won in the last three seasons after suffering a 5-4 defeat to Gaspo in post-match shootouts during the playoff semifinals at the Nakuru ASK Showground on June 25. The Confederation of African Football had earlier unveiled the official plan and qualification format for the first ever women’s champions league. Each of the Caf zones including Council of East and Central Africa Football Association (Cecafa), Council of South African Football Association (Cosafa), Union of Football Federations of Central Africa (UNIFFAC), West African Football Union (Wafu) and Union of North African Football Association (UNAF) will organize qualifiers that will produce the six top teams. Afterwards, two other teams will be added – the host nation and another from the combined CAF zones tournaments’ best loser, to make it eight. The final eight teams will then be divided into two groups of four teams each for a face off for the Champions League title. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy