Vihiga Queens have intensified their training ahead of the forthcoming CECAFA Women Club Championship which will also serve as qualifiers for the inaugural edition of the CAF Women’s Champions League. The championship was set to kick off on July 17 in Nairobi, but was postponed due to financial constraints as explained by the Football Kenya Federation and CECAFA. In an interview with Citizen Digital, Vihiga Queens head coach Alex Alumira said they were forced to go back to Vihiga County from Nairobi where they had been camping in order to reduce accommodation and other facilitation costs. “We decided to go back to our home area Vihiga because we realized we could have spent a lot of money camping at the Kenya Institute of Special Education (KISE) for our daily sessions. “So far I can say all is well and all players are in good condition. I’m now focusing on physical power and ball control in the trainings something which I saw they are lacking most form the friendlies we have had earlier,” Alumira however said as a team they will not take rest because they want to set history by qualifying in the CAF Women’s club championship. Also Read: “We heard that we may wait for long before we kick off the CECAFA tournament reason being the World Under 20, Athletics championship which will be hosted in Kenya from August 17-22 and hence it will pave way for it. Be it what it will be, we will not lag behind instead we will continue with our trainings. “I am have noted big improvement in terms of ball controlling from my players and I am my strikers can now hunt goals in a good way something which was lacking,” Alumira added. While at KISE, Vihiga played series of friendlies including Kayole Starlets and Ulinzi Starlets and Alumira has said more matches are lined up for them. Initial plans were that hosts Vihiga Queens open the competition against FAD Club of Djibouti in a Group C match. Uganda’s representatives Lady Doves, who won the FUFA Super League, are in Group A alongside Tanzania’s Simba Queens and Burundi’s PVP FC, while Group B has Commercial Bank FC (Ethiopia), Yei Joint Stars FC (South Sudan) and New Generation (Zanzibar). The eventual winners of the tournament will represent CECAFA region in the inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League to be held in Egypt later this year. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy