Kakamega Homeboyz scored twice in stoppage time as they defeated Mathare United 4-2 after an enthralling FKF Premier League showdown at the ASK Showgrounds, Nakuru on Saturday. The result will leave Mathare’s confidence deflated after they gave everything, leading up until the final ten minutes when the game was turned on its head thanks to some calamitous goalkeeping. Shami Kibwana scored the opener for Homeboyz before John Mwangi put Mathare in front with a quickfire double and the visitors saw their fightback thwarted as Moses Mudavadi, Kibwana and Stephen Etiang scored late on. Defeat meant Mathare stayed bottom of league table with 14 points two behind their nearest rival Vihiga United while Homeboyz rose two places above Bandari and Wazito into seventh on 34 points. Earlier at the same venue Nairobi City Stars had defeated Ulinzi Stars 2-0 with Nicholas Kipkirui and Bolton Omwenga on target while Kariobangi Sharks thrashed Posta Rangers 3-0 in the day’s other league clash. John Mwangi and James Kinyanjui combined well to slice open the Homeboyz defence but some quick intervention from Collins Odhiambo saw the danger cleared. Also Read: David Okoth then found himself in some great position on the other end but scooped his effort and another attempt by Moses Mudavadi was dealt with by Kennedy Ochieng’. Mwangi found himself clear on target after some wonderful build up from the visitors but was clear flagged offside before he could size up a shot. Homeboyz nearly got the two-goal cushion but goalkeeper Job Ochieng’ kept his side in the tie with a superb save to deny Okoth. The spill from his stop fell to Wanga who opted to play it wide instead of taking the shot and Okoth miscued it for a throw-in with his second stab. Tyson Otieno was left with acres of space on the edge of the Homeboyz box but was indecisive, waiting too long to thread a pass in behind for his teammates and when he finally released Thomas Kianaina had already closed down. Mathare came charging back from the break and after applying high pressure they saw a penalty appeal turned down after Sylvester Owino appeared to have handled the ball inside the box. There were huge protests on the bench but before they even died down Mathare had put the ball in the back of the net thanks to a sweet connection from Mwangi off of Norman Ogolla’s low cross. The delivery was well measured and weighted all Mwangi had to do was direct on goal and he did so expertly to plant into the roof of the net leaving goalkeeper Godfrey Oputi with no chance. Homeboyz almost regained their lead instantly but Owino could not his header on target. He quickly returned to his defensive duties, blocking Mwangi with a well-timed tackle. Mathare deservedly went in front moments later and it was Mwangi that found the teling touch again, punishing Oputi for failing to deal with Otieno’s tame cross to roll it in for his second on the day. That came after some neat work from Kinyanjui, first controlling a long ball, beating Francis Omondi and then finding Otieno down the left channel. -More soon… Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy