Vihiga County Governor Wilber Otichilo has promised Vihiga Queens a one-million-shilling cheque if they seal a place in the CAF Women’s Champions League. The Kenyan champions have been camping in Nairobi for the past two weeks preparing for the qualifying tournament where they are pooled against FAD Club of Djibouti and Scandinavia WFC from Rwanda in Group C. The tournament was scheduled to kick off from July 17 to August 1, but the East and Central African Football Association (CECAFA) postponed it ‘until further notice’. CECAFA’s secretary general Auka Gecheo said financial constraints from the host country (Kenya) forced the association to put the tournament on hold. “During the short time I have been here, I am very convinced that you are well prepared. As the County Government we will offer our full support,” Otichilo said after visiting the club’s friendly match against Kayole Starlets played at the Kenya Institute of Special Education (KISE) field at Kasarani on July 14. Apart from the cash pledge, the Governor assured them that they are in talk with different partners for a possible sponsorship deal soon. Also Read: In their friendly match against Kayole Starlets yesterday, Vihiga fell 1-0 thanks to Juliet Auma Adipo and they are due to play Ulinzi Starlets in another friendly match. The club’s head coach Alex Alumira hailed the Otichilo’s for the support and said he felt disappointed by the postponement. “We shall continue training as we wait for the new dates to be placed by CAF in conjunction with CECAFA. This gives us more time to prepare,” he said. Uganda’s representative Lady Doves, who won the FUFA Super League, is in Group A alongside Tanzania’s Simba Queens and Burundi’s PVP FC. While Group B has Commercial Bank FC (Ethiopia), Yei Joint Stars FC (South Sudan) and New Generation (Zanzibar). The winner for the CAF Women’s Champions League qualifiers (CECAFA) will represent the East Africa region in the Women’s Caf club Champions League to be staged on November and December 2021 in Cairo Egypt.’ Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy