One of the candidates seeking to be a member of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has withdrawn from the interviews after Methodist University denied awarding the degree in his possession. Mr. Abdalla Mohamed was among 36 applicants who had been shortlisted for the interviews which kicked off on Wednesday, July 7. Mohamed and two other applicants; Dr. Abdirizak Arale Nunow and Anne Mwikali Kiusya were to appear before the selection panel on day one. According to the selection panel, Mohamed withdrew his candidature after being informed that the university had denounced his degree that was allegedly awarded on July 28, 2007, terming it a forgery. “…By a letter dated 1st July, 2021, responding to the letter from the Selection Panel, received on the same day, the Vice-Chancellor of the Kenya Methodist University stated as follows [and I quote], “This is to confirm that Abdala Mohamed was NOT a student of Kenya Methodist University. The academic certificate BUS-1-206-05 was not issued by Kenya Methodist University and is therefore a FORGERY,” said the panel in a statement. “Pursuant to Article 47 of the Constitution and the Fair Administrative Action Act, 2015, the Selection Panel brought the matter to the attention of Mr. Abdalla Mohamed via email yesterday, Tuesday 6th July, 2021. In his email response of the same day, Mr. Mohamed thanked the Selection Panel for its correspondence and stated that he would not attend today’s interview.” Also Read: In addition to inviting members of public to submit their views on suitability of the shortlisted candidates, the panel also wrote to various institutions, agencies and professional bodies seeking references and background checks relating to the suitability of candidates. The interviews seek to replace the four commissioners who resigned including; Vice Chairperson Consolata Nkatha, commissioners Margaret Mwachanya, Paul Kurgat and Roselyn Akombe. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy