For Grace Adhiambo the agonising five months of searching for her 12-year-old son Brian Omondi may have been over, but the pain of knowing he will never share this rented single-room in Nairobi’s Majengo area will never go away. All she wants now is to give her son a decent send-off. “Hali yetu ya kifedha iko chini…tumekuwa na barua ya kuchangisha pesa…hata hiyo mwili imekaa sana,” Grace Odhiambo said on Friday. She is an unemployed, single mother of five. Putting food on the table is a nightmare, the situation she finds herself in, only rubbing salt into the wound. “Tukipata mtu ambaye atasaidia atusaidie sababu matanga sio kitu mtu ataweza pekee yake,” she added. Brian Omondi was a source of hope and a better future. The books and school uniform stuffed inside this sack a reminder of a bright son who loved to learn “Mara mingi alikuwa ananiambia mum nikikuwa mkumbwa nitakutoa kwa hii nyumba ndogo ya mabati nikupeke kwa nyumba kubwa,” she explained. A few metres away, the script is similar for the family of Tony Opindo. After an autopsy which was conducted yesterday at the city Mortuary, they immediately began planning for the burial of their firstborn son. They are yet to set a burial date. Money is their biggest challenge. “Sisi hatuwezi kubali kuzika mtoto kwingine lazima tumfikishe kwa boma na pande ya pesa sina hata ndururu,”  Opindo said. For the family of Junior Mutuku Musyoki, they have no date yet for burying their son. They, too, cannot even afford a coffin. “Tumeanza safari ya kuanza mazishi lakini hatuna uwez,” Jacinta Nduku said. As they plan to transport the remains of 12-year-old Junior Mutuku Musyoki on Wednesday next week, they seek any well-wisher to help them raise the money. “Nimetoka kwa chief waniandikie barua angalau tuchange change ile bill iko tuliona kama familia itakuja 350k,” sghe added. For now the three families are holding gatherings everyday to fundraise with the hope that the storm will soon be over.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy