President Uhuru Kenyatta’s allies in Mt. Kenya region have embarked on a drive to unite the region politically to salvage its voting strength ahead of next year’s polls. A meeting held in Meru on Saturday dismissed Deputy President William Ruto’s perceived inroads, terming him an outsider on a mission to wreck the region’s push for the top seat next year. It was however a meeting attended by four of the eight governors from counties that constitute the Mt. Kenya region. The president’s allies converged in North Imenti in a meeting that culminated in a raft of resolutions that the leaders want implemented in a race against time to consolidate the region’s voting bloc. The meeting resolved to engage in meet the people tours across the Mt. Kenya region following widespread reports  of a split mountain, with a few months left to the next polls. “Sisi tutaenda ground…kila mtu ground kwake…door to door…turudishe watu wetu katika njia,” said Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru. Also Read: With the fate of the ruling Jubilee Party unknown, the leaders pushed for a regional party that they will use to negotiate power next year. “Kama tutakaa kitu kimoja hatuwezi kuwa kama wengine wako pande hii na wengine kule…lazima tutakuwa na chombo moja,” said Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya. “Tutaconsolidate our numbers and negotiate as one team…that we shall not have North or East Mt. Kenya,” stated Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui. Molo MP Kuria Kimani, on his part, said: “If we don’t sit down and come up with the agenda for our region, we will be wasted and we will be forgotten for the next 50 years.” The Imenti meeting elevated Agriculture CS Munya, a move that seemed to clash with the endorsement of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi by Mt. Kenya East leaders. “Tujipange ndio tuweze kuvuka tukiwa pamoja, hii maneno ya Mt. Kenya East na West inatoka wapi?” Posed former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo. All governors from the leeward side of the mountain including Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi) and Martin Wambora (Embu) skipped the Imenti event. Meru Senator Mithika Linturi dismissed any possible re-union with the Mt. Kenya West neighbours, his sentiments further complicating the unity push. “Hakuwezi kuwa na mkutano bila governor wa Meru, wabunge wa Meru hawajui, Senator wa MMeru hajui, na MCAs wetu wote wako safari Mombasa na hawana habari,” said Linturi. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia skipped the Meru meeting with an apology saying he was hosting ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. Nyeri’s Mutahi Kahiga was also absent with apology.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy