There will be action galore in Nairobi and Nakuru as the Kenya Cup resumes after a one-week international with five fixtures lined up for Saturday. Three fixtures are in Nairobi and the other two in Nakuru. Impala Saracens, who defeated Top Fry Nakuru in the previous round, will host host Masinde Muliro University at the Impala club in an early kick off fixture. Kakamega-based side Kabras Sugar have a trip to the Moi Showground in Nakuru where they will play Top Fry Nakuru with Menengai Olilers and champions KCB RFC squaring it out later at the same venue. Oilers will count on current top points scorer Timothy Okwemba to lift them above KCB who are looking to cement their position at the summit of the Kenya Cup log. Two fixtures will also be staged at the RFUEA grounds with relegation-threatened varsity sides Kenyatta University Blak Blad and Strathmore Leos going head to head in an early kick off fixture. Leos will be seeking to end their poor run in this seasons Kenya Cup league and the inclusion of Kenya U-20 talisman Matoka Matoka could be an added advantage for the varsity side against rivals Blak Blad. Also Read: Matoka who on Sunday guided the Kenya Under-20 national team into defending the Barthes Cup will be looking to replicate his heroics in the local league. Matoka was the joint top scorer of the Barthes Cup in the just concluded tournament in Nairobi. Kenya Harlequins will later host neighbors Nondescripts at the RFUEA grounds in a 3:00 pm fixture with Nondies out to avoid a defeat that will see their poor run continue as they are currently place second from bottom of the league. Mwamba will take a rest this weekend after playing two consecutive games, they are currently homeless and have been looking for a new home after they were ordered to vacate Nairobi Railway Club in September last year to create room for construction of the new bus park and the Nairobi Expressway. Courtesy of last weekend’s results Kabras moved back to second on 20 points while Impala climbed from seventh to fourth position on 12 points. Nakuru on the other hand dropped to fifth on nine points after picking a losing bonus while Blad maintain position eight on eight points. Match Day Nine: Saturday July 17 Resolution Impala Saracens v Masinde Muliro, 1.00pm, Impala Club Top Fry Nakuru v Kabras Sugar, 1.00pm, Moi Showground, Nakuru Menengai Oilers v KCB, 3.00pm, Moi Showground, Nakuru Blak Blad v Strathmore Leos, 1.00pm, RFUEA Kenya Harlequin v Nondescripts, 3.00pm, RFUEA Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy