Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi ended his two-day tour of Mt. Kenya region with a declaration that NASA is dead and he is looking for new partnerships. This comes barely a day after he said there were talks to revive the political outfit and iron out differences within the formation such as a row over sharing of proceeds from the political parties fund that NASA affiliate parties accuse the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) of hoarding. “NASA is history, it is the past let us now move forward, let us build new partnerships,” said Mudavadi during a church service on Sunday. “You either focus on the past or the future…we want to build new friendships, NASA is the past, come to the future,” reiterated Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, a Jubilee Party member. The leaders from Central Kenya who were present said that the region is willing to work with anyone who will have their interests at heart. “We’re going to meet in Sagana, and that is where were going to make a decision as a community. So let nobody go around saying they have already secured the Mt. Kenya vote,” said Kieni MP Kanini Kega. Also Read: At the Coast, the politics of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and the clamour for constitutional change took center stage. Deputy President William Ruto, speaking in Kwale County, said efforts to change the constitution through the BBI are illegal. “Shida ya Kenya sio katiba, shida ya Kenya ni uchumi. Ata tukibadilisha katiba wapatiane vyeo, wagawane mamlaka, mwananchi mdogo hatakuwa katikati ya mambo ya vyeo na mamlaka,” said the DP. “Lakini tukibadilisha katiba na ipatikane kazi na biashara, kila mwananchi atachangia ndio Kenya itabadilika na sote tutakwenda mbele.” In the same county, ODM supremo Raila Odinga hit out at BBI opponents saying they are the same people who were opposed to the 2010 Constitution. “Wengine wanaonge eti BBI inazidisha tu vyeo…BBI inapunguza gharama ya serikali,haizidishi, maanake mawaziri wengi watakuwa ni wabunge. Mshahara yao itakuwa ni ile ya bunge, ata waziri mkuu atakuwa mbunge,” said the former premier. Raila, who was attending the funeral of Mzee Chitembe Bundu, added that a win for BBI is a win for Kenyans as it will send more money to the counties. “BBI italeta hazina ya kuleta pesa ya kusaidia vijana, ambapo vijana wanaweza kwenda kukopa pesa na hawalipi riba mpaka baada ya miaka saba. Alafu vijana ambao watapewa mkopo ya kulipa karo katika vyuo vikuu vile vile hawatadaiwa chochite mpaka baada ya miaka minne ikiwa wamepata kazi na ajira ya kupata pesa,” he said.  Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy