Raila Odinga, the leader of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), has stated that he does not require President Uhuru Kenyatta’s backing in 2022. During an interview on Radio Citizen on Thursday morning, the former Prime Minister stated that the only thing he would need from the Head of State is his vote. “Sijasema nataka endorsement ya Uhuru, ile kitu nitahitaji labda ni kura yake,” Raila said. At the same time, he downplayed accusations that he just had one bullet left in his political arsenal. “Mimi sikusema niko na risasi moja, sijasema niko na risasi moja, niko na magazine kubwa,” he said. has downplayed claims that Deputy President William Ruto aided him in his rise to the position of Prime Minister. Raila told Radio Citizen on Thursday that his second-in-command never really helped him as much as he claims. His retort appeared to be in response to the DP, who previously stated that he assisted the former Prime Minister and President in gaining their positions. “When we went to Kasarani, it was a hunt and we got our prey, I emerged first, and Mudavadi came second, and he came third,” Raila said on Thursday “Mudavadi became the deputy prime minister while he then became the Agriculture minister, holding the biggest portfolio from our side “ The DP, who was courting voters ahead of the 2022 elections, claimed that after assisting some of Kenya’s top leaders, he was ready to take the presidency. But according to Raila, DP Ruto aided himself instead because there is no evidence that he went out of his way to assist Raila in becoming Prime Minister. “We were a team, he never gave me any money, he did not help me, he cannot say he played better than say, Farah Maalim, Joe Nyaga or Joho,” Raila added. He also weighed in on the stalled constitutional amendments, saying the BBI journey is still on course. “We can still do a referendum and the polls, other countries have even two referendums in a year, we still have a year so there is still time,” he added. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy