Tusker FC Chief Executive Officer Charles Obiny says they are still waiting for Football Kenya Federation’s final say on their CECAFA Club Championship participation. According to Obiny, FKF promised to communicate CECAFA’s feedback after seeking postponement of the tournament to allow the brewers complete their Premier League season, which has not been done just two days to the tournament’s kickoff in Dar es Salaam – Tanzania. FKF nominated the 11-time Premier League champions to represent Kenya in the regional tournament as they were leading when the organisers asked for competitors from each member association. “We have not received any communication from the federation regarding our participation since they nominated us. They said they are speaking to CECAFA to postponed the tournament until we complete the league and being the ones to allow us to participate, we are we cannot make any move without their word,” Obiny told Citizen Digital. The CEO further said the communication will have to be made officially so that their sponsors make arrangements for their travel. “FKF wants the league completed, and CECAFA wants the tournament to go as they have already released the fixtues. In that kind of situation the federation must give us a letter that we forward to the company (East African Breweries) so that we leave,” he added. Also Read: Tusker are pooled alongside hosts Azam and South Sudan’s Atlabara in Group B, for the championship dubbed Kagame Cup as President Paul Kagame of Rwanda is the main sponsor. FKF wanted the tournament postponed until at least August 22, a day after the final rounds of the Football Kenya Premier League. “You see, with five rounds to go and Tusker are leading, it would be ridiculous to be away only to come to play catch-up matches after the rest are done. We have had challenges caused by COVID-19 with our league was halted for quite a long time, so striking that balance is not easy,” told an FKF official on condition of anonymity. If Tusker finally fails to honour the tournament, it will mean another heavyweight out of the matrix as Tanzanian giants Simba have opted out. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy