Since stepping foot in the country after his appointment in February 2021, AFC Leopards head Coach Patrick Aussems has seen and learnt a lot. The Belgian-born who lives in France does not only love the atmosphere in the country but also the stiff competition in football and the food we eat. Aussems who has travelled in many countries due to his coaching career namely – China, Nigeria, Nepal and Europe is of the opinion that Kenyan football is competitive unlike in Tanzania where Simba SC and Yanga are the dominant teams. In an exclusive interview with Citizen Digital, the father of two sons also submitted that he loves the rich fan base in the East African countries- Tanzania and Kenya. “Simba is totally on the top of things in Tanzania and the difference is that in Kenya there are six to seven teams that have the capability to challenge for honors while in Tanzania Simba has dominated and they can go all the way to win that league beating everyone and maybe only Yanga and Azam can try to stop them,” Aussems said. The former Simba SC tactician has argued that he is committed to helping Ingwe return to the glory days which means he may not quit at the end of his short term contract and he is also enjoying the atmosphere in Kenya. Also Read: “When you go somewhere you don’t just go because of football but the atmosphere must be conducive and friendly and I must say I’m happy to be here and would really like to help Leopards to become again the biggest club in Kenya despite the fact that I have some offers on the table,” Aussems revealed. Ingwe has changed coaches frequently almost every season but will we see Aussems at the den next season? “I would like to make the club growing as I did with Simba though one must have ambitions and you need to have tools and means so let’s see.” On food matters, Aussems has mastered eating Western Kenya’s most adored food – Ugali, although prefers serving it with beef and greens. “I am eating Ugali, beef, I am eating greens and just to tell you I am eating everything. You know I am used to being flexible when it comes to food because I have been to China and you can imagine the type of food eaten there and so I don’t have a problem at all,” Aussems added. What he doesn’t like in Kenya Aussems does not like the fact that football pitches in the country are in a devastating condition and this makes it hard for teams to play good football,” he concluded. Aussems’ parents are living in Belgium and his two sons stay in Canada while his wife lives in France. Aussems replaced Antony Kimani as the new Ingwe head coach and since February he has helped Ingwe to the FKF Cup finals and in the third position of the FKF-PL with the race for the title still on. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy