Kenya’s women basketball team ‘Lionesses’ have qualified for 2021 FIBA Women’s Afrobasket Championship after thrashing African Giants Egypt 99-83 in the Zone Five Qualifiers Final at Kigali Arena, Rwanda. The Lionesses will thus be playing in the 2021 FIBA Women’s Afrobasket Championship that will be held in Yaoundé, Cameroon from September 17 to 26 this year. Kenya went into halftime leading 50-42 and Egypt came strong in the third quarter winning 27-17 but the Kenyans showed more power in the last quarter winning 22-14. Kenya’s Victoria Wanjara Reynolds who plays in the United States of America won the Most Valuable Player Award. “It was a very competitive tournament and playing for the first time here is a proud moment and we will make Kenyans Proud in Cameroon,” Reynolds after receiving. Lionesses assistant head coach Mike Opel thanked the fans and congratulated the team for a well-done job. Also Read: “I congratulate my girls, they played very well, Egypt gave us a good fight. It’s all about persistence we never gave up from the word go and the girls followed instructions,” Opel said. Opel who is also assistant head coach of Premier League side Kenya Ports Authority men’s team also looked forward to a great performance in the upcoming Africa’s biggest basketball tournament for women. “Our first aim was to get into the finals and we are going to work harder after celebrating and we will fix our weak points as we plan for the Cameroon championship,” he added. The two sides had met at the group stage with Kenya losing narrowly 106-107. In the third place playoff hosts Rwanda hammered South Sudan 99-65. South Sudan who were making their debut in the championship won the Fair Play Award. In this year’s Afrobasket Championship Kenya will be represented by both Men and Women whereby the men Afrobasket Championship will be held in Kigali, Rwanda from August 24 to September 5, 2021. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy