In March this year, telecommunications giant Safaricom started trials for 5G high-speed internet network using technology from Huawei. The 5G service activated in Nairobi, Kisumu, Kisii and Kakamega is expected to expand to 150 sites across nine towns over the next 12 months. The trials for 5G technology is expected to lay the ground work for what could possibly be the age of seem-less connection. Amid the anticipated rollout of 5G in Kenya and across the globe, there has been concerns over the safety of the technology. Is 5G safe? This was part of the conversation during a recent event organised by Huawei in Naivasha where a group of Kenyan journalists had a virtual tour of
Galileo 5G Exhibition Hall, at Huawei Global headquarters. Asked about the safety of the technology, presenters Winter Wright and Brian Chamberlin explained to us that 5G is “as safe as a lightbulb.” Also Read: While 5G uses higher frequencies than 4G this should not be cause for concern. Earlier this year, the UK Office of Communications published the results of a countrywide study that looked at emissions from 5G mobile base stations. At most, they were 0.04% of the regulatory standard. So neither 5G’s intensity or frequency are a problem. In the US, the FDA reviewed the scientific literature published between 2008 and 2018 on mobile emission safety. It found no reasons for concern. ICNRP, a global organization based in Germany is entirely focused on radiation protection research recently completeda seven year review of global wireless emissions, including 5G frequencies. ICNIRP confirmed that there was no reason to think global wireless emissions caused diseases. The safety of mobile wireless technologies has been extensively researched over the past 40 years. 5G is new and operates in a different range but it’s the same as before as far as safety goes. None of the world’s largest health agencies have any credible evidence that wireless mobile emissions are harmful. This includes the World Health Organization (WHO). Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy