Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) have arrested a university student for allegedly killing his girlfriend. Mt. Kenya University student Innocent Kalio Makokha was nabbed after Kiriri Women’s University of Science & Technology student Christine Ambani was found dead at a guest room in Githurai. The lifeless body of Christine, 23, a third year student pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Business Administration, was discovered on July 13, 2021, with the neck bearing deep stab wounds. Preliminary probe stated that Christine left the institution in Mwihoko for Githurai that fateful morning to meet her boyfriend Makokha, who is pursuing a Bachelor of Science degree in Specialist Needs Education. Christine left with a friend who was going to have her hair plaited in Githurai while waiting for her. Christine and Makokha reportedly booked themselves into a guest room for a few hours as she was supposed to return to the university to sit for a Continuous Assessment Test (CAT) that very afternoon. Also Read: However, according to detectives, Makokha emerged from the room later and topped up the earlier paid amount for them to stay in the room for the entire night. It has since been established that it is during the night that Makokha brutally murdered Christine by stabbing her on the neck, leaving her bleeding to death. The 23-year-old university student at Mt. Kenya University then reportedly took Christine’s phone and logged into her family WhatsApp group where he sent a message, posing as her, asking them to send her Ksh.87,000 for her to refund her boyfriend money he allegedly spent to help her settle in the college. Detectives from the Crime Research and Intelligence bureau of the DCI, upon further look at the suspect’s criminal record, discovered shocking details. Makokha was reportedly previously arrested by detectives on February 2, 2021 after he was implicated in the murder of his brother, his brother’s wife and their one-year-old baby. He is said to have killed the three by setting their house ablaze while they were inside under unclear circumstances. The matter was investigated by Mumias-based detectives and the case file forwarded to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) for further action. “The DPP advised that a public inquest into the matter be conducted. Even before the inquest was conducted and his kin buried, Makokha attacked the grieving family again by disrupting the burial planning meetings that were ongoing and destroyed the family’s property,” read a police report. “He was arrested, charged and remanded at Kakamega G.K Prison. However, the case was withdrawn under unclear circumstances and the suspect set free.” Special Service detectives on Tuesday at around 2am stormed a room that the suspect had rented in Chokaa area within Kayole and arrested him. Makokha, who has been on the run since committing the crime, will be arraigned in court to answer to murder charges. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy