Only 19 percent of Kenyans would support the Constitutional Amendment Bill (BBI) 2021 if it were put to a vote. 31 percent would vote against it, 18 percent would not vote at all, 25 percent are undecided, and 7 percent hold no opinion. This is according to the findings of a Trends and Insights For Africa (TIFA) poll released on Thursday. According to TIFA’s most recent poll, conducted in December 2020, 29 percent of those polled had said they would vote for the BBI. The scales have tipped since then, and the fate of the Bill is now in the hands of the appellate court. More than a quarter of those who would vote for the Bill are sold on the idea of increasing county revenue, establishing the Ward Development Fund, and creating 70 new constituencies. Ten percent of those voting no are opposed to the increased budgetary allocation to counties, while eight percent are opposed to the government using public resources to promote the bill. Another 8% are opposed to the creation of a Prime Minister and two Deputy Prime Minister positions. On a partisan level, 59 percent of ODM supporters support the bill, while 13 percent oppose it. The figures are different for the ruling Jubilee party, which has had its fair share of political drama. 25 percent of Jubilee supporters would vote for the bill, 31 percent would vote no, 11 percent are undecided, and 16 percent would not vote. Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA Party supporters would vote 57 percent against the Bill. 12 percent would vote for the Bill, while 19 percent would not vote at all. According to TIFA, 43 percent of Kenyans believe the BBI is an attempt by certain politicians to influence the 2022 presidential election, while 25 percent believe it is an attempt by both politicians and citizens to solve the country’s problems. At the same time, 15% believe it is a citizen-led effort to make the Constitution more effective in addressing their own issues. Meanwhile, 29 percent of those polled believe President Uhuru supports the Bill in order to exert influence and control over the next president. AAnother 14% believe Uhuru is encouraging and strengthening national unity, while 4% believe it is part of his legacy before he retires. According to the poll results, 50% of those polled believe ODM Raila Odinga supports the bill to broaden his 2022 arsenal. Another 13% believe the former Prime Minister is intent on restoring National Unity, while 3% believe he is intent on correcting errors in the 2010 constitution. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy