AFC Leopards are in talks with head coach Patrick Aussems to extend his initial short term contract, the Belgian has revealed. The 55- year old who was appointed in February is hoping that the talks will be concluded early enough to give him a smooth time to plan for next season. Aussems, who guided Simba SC to lift the Tanzanian Premier League in 2018-2019 has also called upon the Leopards management- should the talks between them turn positive- to be clear on the transfers expected. “If I stay next season depending on the contract talks which are ongoing as we speak, then I want a competitive team, a team which is ready to fight for the title so as to put to an end the 23 years title drought. Fans have waited long enough for the team to lift the league title and this exactly means that we should be ready to play with this in mind next season,” Aussems said. The former Standard Liege defender has added that he will work with only the players he’ll be given, those who have passion and affection to the Leopards. “To be honest with you Leopards need to prepare for next season and we must be in a position to know which players will stay and which players will go so that I start working with those players at my disposal,” Aussems concluded. Also Read: Despite starting the season in quite a promising run, Ingwe missed out on the CAF Champions League and CAF Confederations tickets to Tusker and Gor Mahia consecutively. Tusker were top of the FKF Premier League table on June 30 to nail the Champions League ticket As the federation had to submit their representative to CAF within the deadline which lapsed then, while Gor humbled Ingwe in the FKF Cup finals on July 4 at Nyayo to book CAF Confederations slot. Currently, Leopards are third on the 17-teams log with 43 points, 11 shy of leaders Tusker and they clash with Western Stima this afternoon at ASK Nakuru grounds in the FKF-PL. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy