Ulinzi Warriors basketball head coach William Balozi is confident his charges will defeat rivals KPA in their Premier League clash set for Saturday. Balozi says the team has prepared well and in high spirit to stop KPA in their own backyard at the Makande Gymnasium in Mombasa. “Preparation have been good. It will be a good game considering they will be at their home court. It’s up to us to push ourselves harder if we want to win and I am happy all players are in good shape,” he said. His captain Eric Mutoro, the Kenya national team Morans sensation, says they expect a tough match from the Dockers. ”KPA has depth with their big guys but we can easily match them up. They have recruited well this season and expect them to bring a good fight,” he said. Mutoro who doubles up as the Morans captain noted they know where to press and cage their rivals. Also Read: “We have scouted their weak points which will be critical to us as we work to exploit them,” he offered. This will be Ulinzi’s final match for the first leg of the Kenya Basketball Federation League as it will be KPA’s sixth match. The soldiers have so far played 10 matches winning nine and losing one, against Lakeside while KPA have so far played four winning all. In other matches last season’s finalist Thunder who defeated Equity Bank last weekend will be facing KCA University on Saturday at University of Nairobi grounds. Thunder have 10 points after seven matches having won three and lost four while KCA University have played six matches losing all, to gain six points placing them ninth. Meanwhile Eldoret based side Eldonets will be facing University on Nairobi’s Terror who won their last weekend match against Strathmore’s Blades on Saturday before meeting KCA University on Sunday. Blades are level with Terror, with nine points from six matches; winning three and losing three. In the ladies category on Saturday defending champions Equity Bank will be meeting UON Dynamites on at University of Nairobi Grounds while KPA women will be playing against Storms in Mombasa. In another match Eagle Wings will be facing Strathmore on Sunday. Video Of The Day: KEMRI scientists examine safety of anti-malarial drugs in first trimester of pregnancy