The Communication Authority of Kenya (CA) has made a fresh bid to fill its vacant Director General position 21 months on since the contested exit of Francis Wangusi in August 2019. In a re-advertisement posted on local dailies on Tuesday, the ICT sector regulator has invited interested applicants to apply and submit their applications by June 17. The latest bid to fill the post comes on the back of multiple interlocked contests on the succession of Wangusi whose second term closed in the middle of August 2019. The board of the CA was for instance forced to install Director of Legal Services Mercy Wanjau as its new DG on interim capacity following a suit challenging its composition. Activist Okiya Omtatah had for instance argued the regulator’s board was not fully constituted while further asserting amendments to the Kenya Information Communications Act (KICA) had allowed for the handpicking of appointees. The CA has subsequently sought to fill the leadership post in May and September last year but run into similar headwinds. Also Read: For instance, May’s advertisement was squashed by the Labour Court after an application by the Information Communication Technology Association of Kenya (ICTAK) which decried an un-procedural recruitment drive. ICTAK argued that the vacancy notice discriminated against certain cadres of eligible applicants. In its fresh advertisement, the CA has ‘softened’ the eligibility criteria for applicants by for instance reducing the minimum education qualifications. An applicant will for instance be required to only be a holder of a bachelor’s degree in the relevant ICT field from a previous Masters Degree requirement. Candidates are nevertheless required to have at least 10 years of experience and should have served in a position of senior management for a period of at least five years. The successful candidate shall earn a four year contract, renewable once, subject to satisfactory performance. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |