Shabana and Mully Children’s Family played out an exciting 2-2 draw at the Migori Stadium on Sunday afternoon in a National Super League match that could have seen the hosts collect all points on offer were it not for their lapse in concentration in the dying minutes. The hosts found themselves on the backfoot with just a quarter an hour played when the visitors took the lead through Roney Aliaro but restored parity fifteen minutes later through Elly Augustine’s angled finish from the penalty area. MCF were the better side in the first half thanks to their composure on the ball and tactical discipline but how they conceded the equalizer gave coach Robert Arasa food for thought going into the break. They soon found themselves trailing six minutes after the restart when dangerman John Musyoka slalomed past their rearguard and goalkeeper to slot home to give the hosts the lead. The goal sparked a series of attacks by the visitors as they sought an equalizer and their efforts were rewarded in the 76th minute when they were awarded a penalty that was saved by Shabana goalkeeper Elix Otieno. The home side were left to rue their poor marking in the dying moments of the game when Evan Anguyo poked the ball home to force a draw. Also Read: Shabana head coach Robert Ojienda who took over the reins on Thursday blamed lack of concentration for the shared spoils adding that they will work on their mistakes in his first full week of training. “I am proud of the character that we have shown because we managed to come back and overcome a slow start. “We failed to focus properly and they punished us for that. We will work on that in training and hopefully, we will win our next game.” His opposite number Robert Arasa lauded his charges for their spirited fightback, saying that they will only get better. “This was our first game after a long time and many of the players are not match-sharp. “We have managed to get a point against a very tough opponent away from home. We could not have asked for a better return. We will play better in our next game,” he asserted. Shabana will hope to turn a corner from their recent travails when they host struggling Kibera Black Stars on Friday while MCF will hope to carry on with their impressive form against Kisumu Hot Stars. Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years