The late Somali-American national Bashir Mohamed Mahmoud died by bare hand strangulation, a post-mortem examination has revealed. The autopsy report, which was released on Monday by his family lawyers, also revealed that there was evidence to show that Bashir was tortured before his murder. He reportedly had burns on his body, trauma on the head consistent with being hit by a blunt object, and his toenails were also plucked out. The body of the businessman, who had been missing, was recently found at the Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital mortuary. According to Kirinyaga County Police Commander Leah Kithei, the body was discovered by a resident from Mirera in Murinduko ward, Mwea on May 16, 2021. The resident informed officers at Wang’uru Police Station who went and retrieved the body. Also Read: The family that has been searching for their kin travelled to Mwea on Saturday and identified the body as that of Bashir Mohamed. Their lawyer Charles Madowo later released a statement saying: “It is with heavy hearts that family of Bashir Mohamed Mohamud informs you that the body of Bashir was found earlier on today (Saturday) at Kerugoya Level 5 hospital. As the family processes this tragic news and plan for his burial, they request that they be afforded privacy. Even as Bashir rests, the family shall not rest until justice has been served and those responsible for his death brought to book.” Kabete sub-county Police Commander Francis Wahome has since said several people who last interacted with the Bashir have already recorded statements. Police are also probing how Bashir’s vehicle, a Range Rover, was found burnt in Kibiku three days after his disappearance and the shell carted away in less than an hour after a police officer visited the scene and went back to alert the scene of crime officers only to find the place wiped clean. Bashir’s lawyers claim there were suspicious activities at the Mialle Lounge where the structural engineer and Director of Infinity Development Limited was last seen. “You realise in various instances there are a couple of people who are triangulating and they were on mobile telephones and conversations are ongoing and everyone looks quite jittery it looks as though they are watching out waiting for something to happen,” Alibaya Hassan, the businessman’s lawyer said. CCTV footage captured Bashir leaving the lounge at around 6:50pm. A few seconds after leaving his vehicle he stopped, his car seemingly obstructed by another vehicle. There was a traffic snarl-up on the left lane and no vehicles are seen moving from the right side a clear indication that a vehicle had blocked the road. Curious pedestrians are seen looking at what could be a commotion near Bashir’s car. Reports indicate that Bashir had tried to call his wife but the call was interrupted and his phone was soon after turned off. “Our firm has handled a few ATPU matters and so that was our first suspicion that probably there could be a suspicion from his end and that they are conducting investigation at times they do such a thing they hold you for 24/48 hours and particularly once counsel comes nobody it just wraps up,” Mr Hassan added. The 35-year-old American citizen had interests in construction projects and has been working on different government projects in Kiambu and Nyeri Counties. Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years