KCB head coach Zedekiah ‘Zico’ Otieno now says it is too early to know who will carry this season’s title despite climbing to the helm of the table on Sunday. The Bankers top the table on 36 points, one ahead of second-placed Tusker, and ‘Zico’ says he is targeting maximum points from all the remaining assignments saying it is to the delight of any coach for his team to be declared champions. According to Zico, any of the top eight teams as per the current standings currently can win the title owing to the number of matches left before Kenya’s representatives to the CAF Champions League is declared on June 30. ‘’It is too early to know who will lift the title. All the eight teams leading the pack are capable of making it to the top. We still have a number of matches left and so talking about the eventual champions at the moment is inaccurate,’’ said ‘Zico’. The former Harambee Stars tactician however says his camp is in a sorry state owing to the injury incurred by five of his top players including Enock Agwanda and goalkeeper Gabriel Adika. Others on the treatment table are Rama Salim and defender Bethwel Warambo. He however said the stand-in players are doing a good job hence no cause for alarm. Also Read: ‘’Yes, our camp has five injuries with Enock Agwanda being a long-term. But the players who are available are fit, and have demonstrated why they were picked to join KCB. Currently, I have no option but to work with whoever is available and shows commitment.” At the same time ‘Zico’ said he respects all teams featuring in the league saying he cannot single out one club that poses threat to his camp. “…Mine is to approach a game at a time and ensure we emerge victors. Losing is also part of football and so anything that comes our way rightfully will be respected,’’ added ‘Zico’. Top guns are jostling for the top slot ahead of June 30 in order to represent Kenya at the CAF Champions League. This follows the directive by FKF that the team that will be at the helm of the table then will be picked to represent the country at the continental level. FKF was pushed to reach this decision after the African Football governing body CAF announced June 30 as the deadline for submitting names of clubs by member federations to represent their countries at the continental level. Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years