Governors Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi) and Martin Wambora (Embu) met the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi, ahead of his coronation as the Mt. Kenya spokesperson on Saturday. In a joint statement, the leaders said the country is approaching transition, and as a region, Mt. Kenya is at crossroads where the larger community needs to find a voice to articulate its issues. “What we need is a steady hand, one that’s already tried and tested, to help President Kenyatta deliver to our people,” they said. They affirmed their support for President Uhuru Kenyatta and pledged to work with him ‘as he continues to steer the country during challenging times’. The three governors opined that Speaker Justin Muturi is ‘a man of his word and a ‘respectable gentleman with the Mt Kenya community at his heart.’ "Tembea na Yesu…" Speaker Justin Muturi with Governors Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi) and Martin Wambora (Embu) together with ex-Senator Lenny Kivuti ahead of his enthronement as Mt. Kenya region spokesman tomorrow at Mukurwe Wa Nyagathanga shrine in Murang'a pic.twitter.com/W8B4277ZDg Also Read: — Citizen TV Kenya (@citizentvkenya) May 21, 2021  They cited the close working relationship that Speaker Muturi has had with President Kenyatta, urging him to do everything possible to help the Head of State deliver to the people of Kenya and Mt. Kenya in particular. The governors stated that Mt. Kenya region needs to be at the ‘political high table where the destiny of the nation will be negotiated and it’s important to have a trusted pair of hands and a man who believes in fairness.’ “That man is Speaker Justin Muturi who hails from the East of the Mountain,” they said. The three Governors expressed their unwavering support for the Speaker and said they look forward to working with him in the weeks and months ahead to bring the issues of the region to the fore. Effectively, the three Governors of Meru, Tharaka Nithi and Embu said they have unreservedly endorsed the Speaker of the National Assembly as the spokesperson of Mt. Kenya. They also congratulated Lady Justice Martha Karambu Koome following her swearing-in as the 15th Chief Justice of the Republic of Kenya. They thanked President Kenyatta and the Judicial Service Commission for considering Lady Justice Koome as the first female CJ in Kenya. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |