The daily national curfew has been extended for further 60 days, according to a Gazette notification released on Sunday by the Ministry of Interior. COVID-19, according to Ministry of Interior CS Fred Matiangi, necessitated the prolongation. For the time being, all public gatherings of any kind or movements have been prohibited during the curfew period. “This Order shall apply during the hours of darkness between ten o’clock in the evening and four o’clock in the morning with effect from the 28th of May, 2021 and shall remain in effect for a period of sixty days thereof,” the Public Order Number 3 of 2021 reads in part. Those seeking to hold gatherings during curfew hours must seek written authorization from the chief of police in a county or the chief of police in a division/sub-county. “There shall be no public gatherings, processions or movement either alone or as a group during the period of the curfew except as shall be permitted, in writing, by a police officer in charge of the police in a county or a police officer in charge of the police in a division/sub-county,” the Order reads. Also Read: The Order however, does not apply to those listed as essential services providers. They include: 1. Medical professionals and health workers.
2. National security officers and National Government administration
officers.
3. Licensed pharmaceuticals companies, pharmacies and drug stores.
4. Licensed broadcasters and media houses.
5. Kenya Revenue Authority.
6. Kenya Airports Authority and Licensed Civil Aviation Service
Providers.
7. Kenya Civil Aviation Authority.
8. Kenya Ports Authority and Licensed Sea and Port Operators.
9. Kenya Maritime Authority and Licensed Maritime Service
Providers.
10. Power production and distribution companies.
11. Kenya Railways Corporation.
12. Kenya Pipeline Company.
13. Water and sanitation service providers.
14. Food and farm produce processors, distributors, dealers, wholesalers
and transporters.
15. Licensed supermarkets, minimarkets and hypermarkets.
16. Licensed distributors and retailers of petroleum and oil products and
lubricants.
17. Licensed telecommunications operators and service providers.
18. Licensed banks, financial institutions and payment service
providers.
19. Fire brigade and emergency response services.
20. Licensed security firms.
21. Postal and courier services.
22. Factory, roads and construction workers.
23. Cargo transporters.
24. Children protection service providers.
25. Operators of safe shelters and safe spaces for sexual and gender
based violence survivors.
26. Advocates of the High Court of Kenya
27. Veterinary service providers. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys