Forgotten man Umaru Kasumba rose from the bench to score the equaliser as Bandari rallied from behind to force a one-all-draw against Western Stima at the Moi Stadium in Kisumu in an FKF Premier League match. In Narok, Clinton Omondi’s bagged a second half winner as Ulinzi Stars edged Nzoia Sugar 1-0 while David Okoth notched a brace as Kakamega Homeboyz won on the road, thrashing Posta Rangers 3-1 at Utalii. Chris Masinza had put Homeboyz into an early lead and Bernard Ondiek had a goal for Posta sandwiched between strikes from Okoth with all four goals coming in a frenetic first half. In Kisumu, Kasumba nodded home amid protests from Stima defenders who had laid the offside trap but the lineswoman and centre referee gave their protests a deaf ear. Had technology been at play the review would have gone otherwise, maybe, but for now they’ll have to live with it. Kennedy Odhiambo put the hosts ahead in the 52nd minute, poking home from the box and they’ll feel undone moreso in the first half where they spurned chance after chance. Also Read: Prior to this match they were in the danger zone, at position 16 with 12 points from 17 matches and head coach Juma Abdallah is satisfied with the point. “To come from 4-0 defeat to picking a point is a plus for us,” he said, explaining that the improvement is down to changing his pre-match warm-up tactics. Though their season has been underwhelming, Stima chairman Laban Jobita is not entertaining relegation talk. “Stima is going nowhere. We’re here to stay,” he told Citizen Digital shortly before kick-off. On the other hand Bandari tactician Casa Mbungo and Felly Mulumba are confident of improving, each taking time to hail goalscorer Kasumba. In a contest staged under sweltering heat, waterbreaks were effected in either side of the half but Stima’s Rodgers Ouma will go to bed an unhappy man after missing two chances in the first half, despite his hardwork. In the first instance he picked his spot but the drive crashed on the woodwork, Bandari goalie Justin Ndikumana well beaten while the second, moments to the break, missed the target narrowly Veteran attacker Baron Oketch, in the 57th minute, could have found the target too. Picking a pass from his work station down the left he charged forward to unleash a a shot which Ndikumana thwarted with a good reflex. A point shared, we can say, after all, is a fair result. FKF-PL SUMMARISED FRIDAY RESULTS Ulinzi Stars 1-0 Nzoia United Western Stima 1-1 Bandari FC Posta Rangers 1-3 Kakamega Homeboyz Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years