State House has confirmed the venue for the Madaraka Day fete as Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Kisumu but due to the Covid-19 situation, entry will be limited. Also Read: Kisumu COVID-19 cases surge as Kenya records 9.9pc positivity rate Kanze said the number of citizens attending event has been highly reduced and admission to the stadium will be strictly by invitation card. “His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta would like to, once again, appeal to all Kenyans to continue observing the Covid-19 containment measures, even as they observe the 58th Madaraka Day Celebrations. “The President particularly appeals to the passionate residents of Kisumu City to give the best account of themselves by avoiding situations that may compromise national efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic,” the statement from State House reads. Last year, Madaraka Day celebrations were held at the State House gardens in Nairobi following the ban of mass gatherings as part of measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus in the country. Also Read: Unlike other years, Kenyans were only invited to participate in the celebrations virtually. On Saturday, State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena-Mararo said Madaraka Day celebrations in Kisumu have put the limelight on Nyanza Region to showcase its investment and business potential to the world. “We are lucky and glad that we will have a visiting Head of State also gracing the celebrations, giving Nyanza a more presence in East Africa,” she said. Also Read: Burundian President, First Lady to grace Madaraka day celebrations The also noted that the Kisumu Port and its enabling infrastructure including the revival of the Naivasha-Kisumu-Butere metre gauge railway ranks high on the President’s legacy checklist. According to her, there are many more other sectors that the Government is focused on including the revival of sugar sector, fisheries and cotton farming. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys