Gor Mahia assistant coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo says they are determined to be at the summit of the Kenyan Premier League (FKF-PL) at the end of June, to retain their CAF Champions League status. Although the league will not have fully culminated, Football Kenya Federation will hand the sole Champions League ticket to the table-topping team by June 30, the deadline set by CAF for member associations to submit their representatives. However, with the current standings, Omollo says the race for the number ticket will be more challenging to secure than the previous seasons, as just a month away, Gor are still sixth. Although they have two matches in hand compared to leaders Tusker, K’Ogalo are 11 points behind the Brewers who have 36. “We very determined to be at the top come 30th of next month. It’s a tight race that has put pressure not only to us but also the rest of the teams that are in the top-five positions. Since the announcement was made by the federation every game is like a final to us, we must pick every point available for us to stand a chance of representing Kenya next season,” said Omollo. Still unbeaten since the resumption of football in the country, Omollo is however worried fixture congestion arising from the long Covid-19 break could take toll on the record Kenyan champions. “With the congestion of fixtures it’s expected the players will have to stretch further than usual during that time but the depth in our team and the improving level of fitness among our players will count in coping with the pressure,” added Omollo. On Thursday the reigning champions will take on struggling Vihiga United in a rescheduled fixture at the Mumias Complex – Kakamega, seeking to keep their winning streak. Having cruised into the round of 32 of the FKF Shield with a comfortable win 3-0 win over Congo Boys on Sunday, Gor have a fully fit squad ahead of the Mumias trip. “We are seeing improvement in the level of fitness from our players every day. This is very pleasing as in the situation we are in we need everyone available for duty. We are full hose as we go for the Vihiga match,” a confident Omollo concluded. Gor had a slow start into the season, enduring a difficult albeit a short stint in the continentals which also saw changes in the technical bench, soon after the departure of key players. Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years