National Super League clubs are reeling from late reporting to camp by a majority of their players amidst fitness concerns as they race to be ready for football action on Wednesday. Giants Shabana are the biggest casualties with at least 12 players yet to report to training ahead of their weekend high-octane clash against Mully Children Family FC. Speaking to Citizen Digital team assistant coach Kevin Momanyi is however adamant the late arrivals won’t affect their performances on Sunday given the training sessions and friendly matches they have played so far. “A majority of the players have been with us for more than a week and we have managed to train with them. “We played against Gucha FC who compete in the county league and I’m happy to report that we are not badly off in terms of fitness. We expect those that are yet to report to camp will join us soon so that we are full house by Wednesday.” Also Read: To have their mojo back, the Joseph Ongoro coached side will have to find consistency in their play, an element that threatens to thwart their promotion ambition just like it has been the case in their past two seasons. Mwatate United will host Migori United in Wednesday’s curtain-raiser in Wundanyi while fifth-placed Fortune Sacco will be home to Vihiga United with victory enough to help leapfrog their opponents on the log standings. Relegation-threatened Murang’a Seal will take on Coast Stima in a fixture team head coach Vincent Nyamberi hopes will spark their survival challenge. “It was unfortunate for us because the league was stopped when the players had started picking form with back-to-back victories against Migori Youth and Sony Sugar.re “I will aim to use our encounter with Stima to assess our fitness before embarking on a plan that will see us move higher on the log.” Muranga Seal, based at St. Sebastian Park, are expected three more players to join camp ahead of their trip to Mombasa. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |