The Africa Day Concert 2021 will have a star-studded line-up of guest appearances from some of the most well-known faces on the continent and around the world. It is set to put Africa’s next global wave of talent centre stage and will feature Kenya’s songster Bahati with special appearances by Amina and Nadia Mukami both from Kenya. The highly anticipated global event convened by YouTube and MTV Base will be hosted by feted actor Idris Elba and will stream exclusively on YouTube. “The Africa Day Concert is an important tribute to Africa. We are excited to have the next wave of African artists perform as we celebrate the 58th anniversary of this auspicious day. At YouTube, we are committed to continuing to showcase the power of African talent and creativity to the world,” said Alex Okosi, Managing Director of Emerging Markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa at YouTube. The event hosted by Golden Globe and SAG winner, actor-philanthropist Idris Elba has attracted celebrated artists from South Africa, Uganda, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Rwanda, Egypt, Cameroon, Angola, Zambia, Tanzania, Ivory Coast, Ghana, and Kenya among other countries performing live on multiple stages in Lagos, Nigeria and South Africa’s Johannesburg. The global event, a partnership between MTV Base and YouTube will exclusively be live streamed on YouTube at 20:00 EAT and broadcast across Africa on MTV Base (DStv Channel 322) at 22:00 EAT. Also Read: Making special appearances at the event are iconic and legendary musicians Angelique Kidjo, Tanzanian superstar Diamond Platnumz, Congolese singer-songwriter Fally Ipupa, one of South Africa’s most powerful duos Mafikizolo, the legendary internationally renowned South African artist Yvonne Chaka Chaka and 31 others. “We are thrilled to have some of Africa’s most notable stars, who will be celebrating Africa’s next global wave of talent. The Africa Day Concert 2021 will be a spectacular display of African excellence fitting of the 58th anniversary of this important day. Viewers can expect a unique content experience that will be innovative, informative and entertaining,” said Monde Twala, Senior Vice President and General Manager at ViacomCBS Networks Africa. Tanzania’s songstress Zuchu, South Africa’s Elaine, one of the continent’s most-streamed artists, rapper and MTV Base Hottest MC 2020 winner, Focalistic as well as rap duo, Blaq Diamond, currently MTV Base’ Hottest MC New Wave title holders will be performing as well as Nigeria’s most popular emerging artist, singer, songwriter and “Case” hitmaker Teni. Afrobeat star, Bella Shmurda, who rose to prominence with the song “Vision 2020” Nigerian singer and songwriter Omah Lay, Ghanaian artist and afrobeat/afro-fusion singer, Gyakie as well as Suspect 95 from Ivory Coast have confirmed participation where they are expected to release new hits to the global audience. Also included are talented young African artists who are on the cusp of immense success and will for the first time share a stage with big names during the live performance among them Rozzy Sokota (Sierra Leone), Ary (Angola), Mohamed Ramadan (Egypt), Aveiro Djess (Cameroon) and Bruce Melodie (Rwanda). Viewers can expect to see a spectacular display of African excellence as the sounds, sights and rhythm of the continent unite Africans once more this Africa Day on May 25. The concert will stream globally on YouTube at 20:00EAT and MTV Base (DStv Channel 322) at 22:00EAT. The show will also repeat on BET Africa (DStv Channel 130) on Wednesday 26 May at 13:00 EAT, and on MTV Africa (DStv 130) Thursday 27 May at 20:00 EAT. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |