Kenyan leaders have continued to mourn the former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile who died early Sunday Morning at the Nairobi Hospital. In his message of comfort, President Uhuru Kenuyatta described the late Kalembe, 57, as a witty, determined and practical politician whose rise in life was as a result of sheer hardwork. “It is unfortunate that death has taken from us the Hon Kalembe Ndile in his prime. He was a lively politician who loved and worked with everyone, and always held the interests of the country at heart,” the President said. The Head of State recalled his interactions with the witty politician over the years saying, the late Kalembe excelled as a fighter for human rights especially the right to access land. “With the death of Mheshimiwa Kalembe, our country has lost an astute figher for human rights. We all remember how passionately he fought for the plight of squatters in the country ,” the President eulogised the former MP. The President wished the family of the departed politician God’s grace and comfort as they come to terms with his demise. Also Read: Deputy President William Ruto eulogised the late MP as a leader who devoted his life to serve the people of Kibwezi. “He was a master of equal justice who set an incredible example of service to all.” DP Ruto said on Sunday”He will best be remembered for his modesty, insights, independent voice and fighting for the rights of the underprivileged.” Mheshimiwa Kalembe Ndile devoted his life to serve the people of Kibwezi. He was a master of equal justice who set an incredible example of service to all. He will best be remembered for his modesty, insights, independent voice and fighting for the rights of the underprivileged. pic.twitter.com/CjqEro7DyW — William Samoei Ruto, PhD (@WilliamsRuto) May 30, 2021  ODM leader Raila Odinga also sent his condolences, saying the former legislators demise was a blow to the people of Kibwezi who benefited immensely from his charisma. “With great shock, I have learnt of the passing of former MP Hon Kalembe Ndile. ” Raila said “The people of Kibwezi and our country have lost a charismatic leader with exceptional grassroots mobilization skills who also cared deeply for the underprivileged.” With great shock, I have learnt of the passing of former MP Hon Kalembe Ndile. The people of Kibwezi and our country have lost a charismatic leader with exceptional grassroots mobilization skills who also cared deeply for the underprivileged. May He Rest In Eternal Peace. pic.twitter.com/zlQrQX9nHx — Raila Odinga (@RailaOdinga) May 30, 2021  Reports indicate that the 57-year-old MP died at the Nairobi Hospital where he had been admitted for the past three weeks. His son Antony Kioko confirmed the news, saying his father died at around 5.35a.m on Sunday. Ndile, who was the director of Tanathi Waterworks, is said to have been battling an undisclosed illness for a long time. The once vocal politician has been relatively quiet since his failed attempt to win the Mavoko MP seat in 2017. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys