Rugby action is expected to resume in the country in two weeks’ time, a month since the Government allowed for the restart of sports activities which had been suspended late March due to a surge in COVID-19 infections. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) Chairman Oduor Gangla has said the league will resume on June 12, the day after rugby legend Benjamin Ayimba is set to be laid to rest in Alego, Siaya County. The Ministry of Sports has given the green light for KRU to resume the 2021/2022 season in accordance and adherence to the existing COVID19 protocols. Gangla has reiterated the need to vaccinate players and staff involved in the game before the resumption saying the Ministry of Sports had facilitated the vaccination of 700 players, with weekly testing set to be introduced to ensure safety. “We are fortunate enough the Ministry of Sports has facilitated the vaccination of 700 players which gives them first line protection probably from the Covid-19 virus, the union will adhere to the guidelines set aside by the Ministry of Health as we gear up for a safe return to rugby action,” Gangla said. However it will be partial relief for fans as they will not be allowed in the stadium to witness their respective teams play. Also Read: The next four weeks should be a busy one for KRU and rugby in general once local rugby league resumes in the country, with the national teams preparing for assignments in the rugby calendar year. “The union has a busy schedule ahead once rugby resumes with national teams getting ready for global events we must ensure they are in shape to compete since rugby is a contact sport that takes a little bit longer to be get ready,” Gangla added. Kenya Simbas will play Senegal on 3 July in Nairobi in the Rugby World Cup 2023 qualifiers before travelling to Zambia on July 11. The Kenya U-18 team also known as Chipu and the Kenya Lionesses respectively are expected to host the Barthes Cup and Colombia respectively with Shujaa getting ready for the Olympic games come July. Kakamega based Kabras Sugar currently top the Kenya Cup league followed closely by rivals KCB Rugby with both teams having won all their opening fixtures before the government’s suspension of all sporting activities. Kabras Sugar will host Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad at the Kakamega Showground while Resolution Impala Saracens host Mwamba at the Impala Club. Bottom of the table Strathmore Leos take on Kenya Harlequin in the day’s early kick off with hosts and defending champions KCB taking on Top Fry Nakuru in the 3.00pm kick off, with both games being played at the Ruaraka grounds. Revised Kenya Cup Fixtures Kenya Cup Match Day 5 Saturday 12 June 2021 Strathmore Leo’s v Kenya Harlequin, 1.00pm, KCB Sports Club
KCB v Top Fry Nakuru, 3.00pm, KCB Sports Club
Resolution Impala Saracens v Mwamba, 3.00pm, Impala Club
Kabras Sugar v Blak Blad, 3.00pm, Kakamega Showground Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys