Senior Sergeant Grace Nyamohanga alias ‘Nasra’, the prison warder believed to be in-charge of a wide job scam syndicate has surrendered. According to the Directorate of Criminal investigations (DCI), the suspect surrendered herself to the Serious Crime detectives on Sunday afternoon. “She is currently being processed to appear in court tomorrow (Monday), to answer to various charges including obtaining money by false pretences, forgery and money laundering among other charges,” the DCI said on Twitter. On May 21, detectives busted a racketeering syndicate that is said to have obtained hundreds of millions of shillings from unsuspecting jobseekers, on the pretext that the they would be offered jobs. Investigations revealed that the syndicate is operated by one Nyamohanga who is a Senior Sergeant at the Lang’ata Women Prison. It is alleged that she has so far swindled jobseekers over Ksh. 200million in 10 months. Also Read: The prison warder apparently operates a mafia organisation that recruits helpless jobseekers, with the promise of job opportunities in top government parastatals and government security agencies including the Kenya Defence Forces, National Intelligence Service and the National Police Service. The DCI said dozens of fake offer letters were seized from her house. “The suspects have recruited jobseekers from across all levels of education and academic disciplines including graduates in Mathematics, Computer Science and Microbiology among others,” the DCI said on Twitter. One such victim is a woman from Kiambu county who was swindled out of Ksh. 800,000 with the promise that her three children would be offered job opportunities at the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF),  Nairobi Metropolitan Services and the Kenya Ports Authority. She was also reportedly offered appointment letters inviting her respective children to the said institutions to take up positions that had allegedly fallen vacant. However, she became jittery on the authenticity of the appointments when the suspect called twice to postpone the reporting dates, citing COVID 19 restrictions. This prompted her to report the matter to detectives. Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years