Sergio Aguero has agreed a two-year deal with Barcelona and will join the Catalan giants once his deal at Manchester City expires next month, according to reports. The 32-year-old will leave the Etihad Stadium after Premier League champions City’s last game of the season in the Champions League final against Chelsea on May 29. And The Guardian claim the Argentine has already agreed a two-year contract with LaLiga side Barcelona – his club of preference – and will receive a bonus if they win the Champions League during his time at the club. The outlet adds Aguero will undergo his medical in the next few days, with his deal with the Camp Nou outfit set to be announced following the Champions League final a week on Saturday. The move to Spain could well see Aguero – who reportedly turned down three other offers and accepted a lower salary at Barcelona than was available elsewhere – link up with his compatriot Lionel Messi, although his contract at the Camp Nou is also up next month and he has yet to agree a new deal. Aguero was said to be earning £12million a year at Manchester City, while his new deal at Barcelona will see him earn £4.4m (€5m). Also Read: The same outlet also adds Barcelona are closing in on the signing of Lyon star Memphis Depay, who would – like Aguero – join on a free transfer. The 27-year-old former Manchester United winger – who has been a target for his former Netherlands boss Ronald Koeman since the end of last season – confirmed earlier this week he would be leaving his current Ligue 1 employers. ‘It will be strange to think that I will play my final game for the club on Sunday against Nice,’ he told L’Equipe. ‘I am a bit sad that I won’t be able to do that in front of the fans, in an empty stadium without my friends, the fans and my family. ‘I’ve had some great times here. I have played in the Champions League, I have captained the team and I am a much better player now. ‘I want to go to one of the two or three best clubs in the top five leagues. I don’t know where I will end up yet, but that’s my plan.’ -Daily Mail Online Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |