The Migori – Homa Bay road has been cut off after Oria-Riat Bridge on River Kuja collapsed. The bridge collapsed at 5am on Wednesday with a trailer that was transporting sugarcane. The driver was on his way to Sukari industry in Riat Trading centre, Ndhiwa sub county when the incident occurred. Ndhiwa sub county police commander Robert Aboki said the driver has been rescued. The area MP Martin Owino urged road users to exercise caution and patience as he engages relevant government stakeholders on a temporary pass way to ease movement. On Tuesday, the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) warned motorists that the Bondo-Usenge-Osieko road has been cut off. Also Read: A statement from the authority said the Dhogoye Bridge was destroyed following heavy rains in the Nyanza region caused flooding. “Since there is no alternative access to Osieko, we wish to advise motorists along that section not to attempt crossing the over-topped section, and to only cross when water levels are low,” KeNHA said on Tuesday. The authority said trucks should avoid using the crossing for now as officers evaluate mechanisms of undertaking repair works on the structure. According to the statement, a permanent bridge has been planned for and procurement process is underway to solve the perennial crisis that occurs every time Lake Victoria water levels rise at this crossing.   Over the weekend, the Kenya Red Cross said different areas across the country experienced heavy rainfall leading to flooding. “In areas such as Ilchamus and Loboi (Baringo South) communities lost their cattle while in other locations (Nyando Sub County and Homabay)-homes were flooded,” the humanitarian organization said on Twitter. Kenyans have been advised to take caution during this rainy season. “We also continue to monitor the situation as we send our early warning alerts to affected communities. For any emergency please call 1199,” Kenya Red Cross said.   Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |