Athletics Kenya will hold trials for the Africa Senior Championships on May 27-29 despite the uncertainties surrounding the event owing to Covid-19 pandemic. The continental event set for Algiers, Algeria has now been postponed twice having initially been planned for June 1-5 before it was moved to June 24-28 and later postponed indefinitely. “Due to the health situation, marked by a rebound in the spread of the coronavirus pandemic and the risk of circulation of new variant (s), the competent authorities, following the recommendations of the scientific monitoring committee of the evolution of the Covid-19 pandemic, recommended to postpone this sporting event to a later date,” read a statement from the Algerian Ministry of Youth and Sports (MJS). The Ministry further urged the Algerian Athletics Federation (FAA) to make the necessary arrangements to inform the officials of the African Athletics Confederation (CAA), in order to agree new dates for the holding of these championships as soon as the health situation improves. AK Vice President Paul Mutwii confirmed to Citizen Digital that the trials for the event are still on despite the new development. “Nothing has changed yet, we will still have our trials on June 27-29 as we wait for the new dates,” said Mutwii. Also Read: The event is set to present athletes with an opportunity to seal qualification times for the Olympic Games which is set for July 23- August 8 in Tokyo, Japan. Meanwhile, Mutwii also disclosed that the trials for the Summer Games have been planned for June 17-19 in Nairobi with the renovations at Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret still ongoing. “We are yet to decide if we will have the trials for the Olympics at Nyayo or Kasarani. However, it is very likely that Kasarani will host the event as it will also give us an opportunity to assess our preparedness to host the World Under-20 Championships where we can have an opportunity to test some of the equipment for the Junior event,” he said. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |