Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga is safe following a chopper crash in Siaya County on Sunday evening. The chopper had flown him from Kisumu to Gem in Siaya County when it crashed. A statement from his Spokesperson Dennis Onyango said the chopper went down shortly after dropping him and his entourage of four people. “The helicopter, Bell 407, Rregistration 5Y-PSM had dropped Mr Odinga at Kudho Primary School in Gem when it attempted to lift off to create space for other planes. Unfortunately, it crashed,” the statement reads. There were no fatalities as the pilot and four others who on board escaped with minor injuries from the chopper crash. Mr. Odinga is said to have proceeded with his scheduled activities with President Uhuru Kenyatta following the incident. Also Read:  Earlier in the day, the ODM leader welcomed President Kenyatta to Kisumu at the start of a three-day working tour of the region. The two leaders are in Kisumu ahead of Tuesday’s celebrations for Madaraka Day that will be held at the new Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium. On Sunday, President Uhuru Kenyatta officially commissioned the Kodiaga-Wagai-Onyinyore/Akala, and Nyangweso-Muhanda Roads in Siaya County. The Ksh. 1.6billion road network covers a total distance of 38 kilometres and opens up the fish and sugarcane rich region to markets in Kisumu and beyond. Speaking to wananchi who turned up to welcome him at Wagayi market, the President, who was accompanied by Mr. Odinga and several Luo Nyanza leaders, urged area residents to back the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI).  He said the reform process is aimed at uniting and accelerating the country’s progress. Also on the President’s diary in Kisumu is a two-day State Visit by his Burundi counterpart Evariste Ndayishimiye and First Lady Angeline Ndayubaha. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and her Burundi counterpart Angeline Ndayubaha will participate in a number of programs, the details of which will be shared with the media on a rolling basis. “His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta would like to, once again, appeal to all Kenyans to continue observing the Covid-19 containment measures, even as they observe the 58th Madaraka Day Celebrations,” Spokesperson Kanze Dena said on Saturday. “The President particularly appeals to the passionate residents of Kisumu City to give the best account of themselves by avoiding situations that may compromise national efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic,” State House said in a statement. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys