Simiyu Robinson Wanjala did not expect to be the top performer in the just released 2020 KCSE results. Robinson, speaking exclusively to Citizen TV from his parents’ home in Buruburu, said that while he performed well from From One, he did not expect to be the top candidate. He had considered staying away from the TV on Monday, when the results were being announced, to alleviate his anxiety. “We were having lunch, and I wanted to be as far away from the TV as possible; I only rushed to watch when I heard CS Magoha mention his name,” Wanjala told Citizen TV. “I couldn’t believe it when I heard my name; I’m still in disbelief,” he said. According to him, the results were proof of his hard work and divine assistance from God. “There were a lot of challenges, especially in Form Four,” he explained. “When corona came, I prayed to God and asked him to repay me for all the hard work I had put in.” Also Read: The only person who was not shocked by the results was his mum- Mercy Simiyu- who said she expected the results. She told Citizen TV that her son is very hardworking and disciplined, and that she expected him to be the best performer. “I had prayed to God for my son when the results were being announced, and I knew he would be announced as the top candidate,” she said. Robinson’s dad, Mr Wanjala who was smiling from ear to ear said although he expected his son to be ho in the top ten, he did not expect him to be the top performer in the country. “My son has really done well despite the challenges brought by the pandemic, we are very excited as a family” he said. Robinson’s father, Mr Wanjala, who was beaming from ear to ear, said that while he expected his son to be in the top ten, he did not expect him to be the country’s top performer. “Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, my son has done exceptionally well, and we are very excited as a family,” he said. Robison completed his High School from the Muranga High School where he had enrolled after finishing his Primary School Education at the Gachie primary school. He intends to study medicine at the University of Nairobi. “I chose engineering and medicine, and I now hope to study medicine at the University of Nairobi,” Robinson explained. He advises students and everyone else to never give up on their dreams, to put God first, and to ignore naysayers. Video Of The Day: Guns galore