President Uhuru Kenyatta received results of the 2020 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations on Monday. Education CS George Magoha presented the results to the Head of State during a briefing at State House, Nairobi. President Kenyatta congratulated the 2020 KCSE candidates for a great performance despite the challenges posed by Covid-19. He  also thanked education sector stakeholders for the smooth administration of the examinations. The marking exercise was concluded on May 7, 2021 with Prof. Magoha thanking examiners and from the Education Ministry and Teachers Service Commission for “working tirelessly”. “We experienced a number of cases where examination officials attempted to open the papers with the intention of exposing them to candidates before the actual examinations started. We thwarted these efforts in a few centers countrywide, some of which I released to you during my weekly briefs,” he said during a Press briefing at the Nairobi School. Also Read: He congratulated the 752,891 students who finally sat for their exams after months of uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. On the issue of exam irregularities, CS Magoha said 27 officials were stripped of their responsibilities as centre administrators, supervisors, or invigilators. He said this was as a result of allegations of violating examination administration laws. Their names are to be submitted to the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) for disciplinary action. At State House on Monday, President Kenyatta also witnessed the swearing in of Prof Fatuma Chege. She is the PS of the newly created State Department for Implementation of Curriculum Reforms within the Ministry of Education. President Kenyatta expressed confidence in Prof Chege’s ability to steer the ongoing roll out of the new curriculum. “You have been at the forefront in the development of this curriculum. You know what needs to be done,” he said. Dr Joseph Kinyua (Head of Public Service), Dr Julius Jwan (Early Learning and Basic Education PS), Nancy Macharia (TSC Chief Executive Officer) and her Kenya National Examinations Council (KNEC) counterpart Mercy Karogo were present during the ceremony. Meanwhile, all schools across the country resumed classes on Monday following the directive from the Ministry on resumption of physical learning. Video Of The Day: Guns galore