Ugandan Police have warned their citizens against breaching the curfew and other Health Ministry rules due to the emergence of the COVID-19 variant India. Also Read: COVID-19 variant from India detected in Uganda On Sunday, Police Spokesperson Fred Enanga said joint security agencies have heightened enforcement of COVID-19 measures. “According to the Ministry of Health, there is evidence of the new COVID-19 strain in the country, and yet only 387,027 people have been vaccinated as of 5/05/2021. This is not encouraging, because many people are complacent and continue to go about their daily businesses and activities, without face masks, social distancing and or observation of proper hygiene of washing hands with soap,” he said in a statement. He warned that all persons found breaching the Ministry of Health COVID-19 protocols and curfew timings — 9pm to 5.30am — will be subjected fines, penalties and or court action. “All motorists outside the essential category, caught in the curfew will have their movements disrupted and motorcycles or motor vehicles impounded,” the spokesperson said, adding that that all non-essential movements during the curfew timings are restricted. Also Read: According to Enanga, heightened enforcement will help reduce the reckless and risky interactions at night which increase opportunity for disease transmission. He said inspections have been intensified as well as checks and raids to counter all violations and defaulters of the curfew rules and other COVID-19 protocols. “Our areas of interest include; bars operating illegally, places of entertainment, gatherings of more than 200 people (except under very exceptional circumstances by the Ministry of Health),” the statement reads. “The public should know that the measures above are aimed at slowing the spread of a very contagious virus. And even though some people are frustrated due to COVID-19, fatigue, it is crucial to take the threats of COVID-19 seriously and not let our guards down,” it adds. Video Of The Day: Guns galore