Wazito FC head coach Francis Kimanzi has warned his players not to underestimate Gor Mahia when the two sides clash in their rescheduled fixture set to highlight FKF-PL resumption this week. The match was initially set for Wednesday, but the league restart date was postponed to Friday to allow screening of all players and officials for COVID-19. It is however not specified if the match will still be in the opening date of the league restart, with Kimanzi cautioning his charges the off-pitch issues reported at Gor’s camp should not be a reason for an easy approach against the reigning champions. “They can be a very dangerous team when you try to undermine them, they have very good players who know how to win big matches. Every team is facing financial challenges due to the Covid-19 pandemic we included, so we have to prepare well and play to get three points which are important for our title challenge,” said Kimanzi. Reports of a looming mass exodus of players from Gor due to financial constraints have suggested the club could be be weakened further, after a slow start into the season. Although Gor Secretary General Sam Ocholla has refuted the claims, it is yet to be seen if their Brazilian import Wilson Silva will return after travelling home amid reports he was fed up with the club. However, the rest have of foreigners have resumed training with the club, including Burundian Jules Ulimwengu and Tito Okello of South Sudan. Having been inactive since March when the government stopped all sporting activities as a measure to curb the spread of Covid-19, Kimanzi expects quite a slow tempo in the first matches upon restart. “The break has affected every player’s fitness because football is a team sport. You need your teammates to perfect the tactics and shape, so we will try our best and improving progressively,” he noted. Meanwhile, Wazito’s Kevin Kimani who was injured while on international duty has recovered from the ankle injury, and could feature against Gor in the reopening match. “He is a very experienced player, one of the best midfielders in the league. So far his form has improved because of his dedication and hard work that he puts in training and during football matches to meet the high standards we have set at the club. I hope he stays fit throughout the season,” the veteran tactician told Citizen Digital. Wazito are sixth in the league standings with 25 points from 15 games while K’Ogalo are seventh with 22, after 14 matches. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |