Counties with high stocks of HIV/AIDS commodities are now set to redistribute to those with relatively lower stocks, the Council of Governors (CoG) has said. This comes as a result of a meeting with the Global Fund following the current standoff between the government of Kenya and the USAID over a shipment of antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) at the Mombasa port. CoG Chairman Martin Wambora, in a press address on Wednesday, said county governments will ensure services are delivered promptly to persons living with HIV/AIDS through healthcare workers and Community Health Volunteer programs (CHVs). Mr. Wambora, who is also the Embu Governor, added that county governments will also withdraw obsolete anti-HIV drug regimens such as nevirapine from their facilities. “The Council of Governors will engage the Ministry of Health to fast-track the release of the pending products for HIV/AIDS stuck at the Mombasa port,” said Governor Wambora. “County governments will prioritize a long-term solution in financing HIV, TB and Malaria response through domestic financing and increased government resources to the programs.” Also Read: The CoG also applauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for lifting the cessation of movement orders in the five counties of the disease-zoned area following decline in COVID-19 infections. According to Wambora, this will give Kenyans more time to work on their businesses hence improving the economy. He however cautioned Kenyans against lowering their guard, urging them to keep adhering to the Ministry of Health protocols since the country is still witnessing the third wave of the pandemic. “…the county governments through the joint intergovernmental emergency response committees will strictly enforce the rule of wearing masks, social distancing and washing hands in public spaces,” he said. “All businesses are herewith directed not to provide any service to anyone who is not wearing a mask. I urge each Kenyan to take personal responsibility because the pandemic comes for you alone, therefore take care of yourself take care of yourself and be strict, resolute and unapologetic about it.” Governor Wambora noted that, in terms of bed capacity, isolation beds in counties have increased by 232 from 6,420 last week to 6,652 due to COVID-19 recoveries. Available ICU beds have reduced by 9 from 336 to 327; while HDU beds have increased by 18 from 138 last week to 156. The CoG boss added that a total of 534,908 vaccine doses have been received in 28 counties, out of which 470,050 doses have been administered as follows: healthcare workers (86,260), security (47,400), teachers (83,721), and others (252,669). On disbursement of equitable share of revenue, Governor Wambora said outstanding amount owed to county governments is Ksh.70.2 billion. “Despite having only one month left to the end of the financial year, the National Treasury is yet to disburse this outstanding amount to counties. This has compromised response measures towards the COVID-19 pandemic and service delivery to wananchi,” he said. Video Of The Day: Guns galore