Safaricom and Huawei have announced the trial of an innovative new solution for restaurants dubbed ‘Scan & Order’. The solution unveiled on Thursday helps restaurants digitise their menu and ordering systems enabling them to provide better customer service, optimize their menu and pricing strategies, and leverage the power of big data. “I want to thank Huawei, their R&D team and everybody behind Huawei in bringing this solution to life. Thank you Pete’s for being the 1st restaurant to have Scan & Order,” said Sitoyo Lopokoiyit, Managing Director of M-PESA Africa and Acting Chief Financial Services Officer. He was speaking during the unveiling of the solution at Pete’s Cafe in Kilimani. The Scan & Order technology will also help restaurants optimize their product offerings and their pricing strategies, integrating with M-PESA for easy payments. It provides tools for restaurants to plan their fresh produce purchases and supply chains. By enabling real-time feedback mechanisms, merchants can quickly and cost-effectively respond to consumers requirements in the restaurant. Also Read: The solution also enables restaurants to develop loyalty schemes and build long-term relationships between users and merchants by enabling bonus point management. Coming at a time the country is grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic, this new service is also expected to further improve contactless ordering in restaurants reducing the risk of further infections. Huawei Kenya CEO Meng Wei assured that the company would continue partnering with Safaricom to invest in innovations and technology solutions. “Building on this cooperation, Huawei will continue to work with Safaricom to continuously invest in innovation and support Pete’s Cafe’s digital business development. We will create more innovative services and a richer digital life for all Kenyans. Further bringing the digital world to every person, home and organization in Kenya,” said Meng Wei. Pete’s Cafe CEO, Pete Owiti welcomed technology saying: “We are happy to embrace technology and again to be the first restaurant in Kenya to launch the Scan & Order service together with Huawei and M-PESA. Pete is 100% owned by locals for locals with a global touch. Together we are chasing a digital world!” Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |