Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has been suspended from the August House for 4 consecutive sittings after admitting to making disparaging remarks about some legislators without a substantive motion. During the Thursday afternoon sitting, Speaker Justin Muturi announced that any member of the House was at liberty to move a motion for Nyoro’s suspension. “I urge you to read the Hansard, and do not name a member in the plenary without a substantive motion, or you will be in violation of House standing orders,” the Speaker said. Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe proposed the motion, which was seconded by his deputy Maoka Maore. During the fractious session, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and his Kiharu counterpart were called to defend themselves against the allegations which apparently exposed the House to ridicule. The two were cited for remarks they made: that legislators were ‘paid Ksh. 100,000 to vote for the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI)’ when the report was tabled in the August House last week. Also Read: When he took the floor, the Kiharu MP accused some legislators of cowardice and betrayal of the electorate without equivocation. “I called them not only sellouts and cowards, but also intimidated, and now I call them sycophants who betrayed Kenyans,” Nyoro said. The legislator also threatened to present evidence in front of the House to back up his claims of bribery, dishonesty, and State capture. The session then turned chaotic when Gatundu South legislator Moses Kuria rose to make his statement. Kuria, who had earlier claimed he would return the bribe he had received from the office of the Leader of the Majority, was holding a large wad of cash in his arms. He was however not given the opportunity to explain the mystery surrounding the cash; instead, Speaker Muturi dressed him down. “Moses Kuria what are you doing? You are now trivialising this matter, this is not a market in Gatundu,” the Speaker said. Despite the dramatic incident, Moses Kuria was cleared of the charges against him after claiming that he did not make them within the confines of parliament. “Kuria is free to make whatever remarks he wants, and since I haven’t heard them here, there are no further proceedings against Mr Kuria,” Speaker Muturi said. With regards to the wad of cash that Kuria had presented in the House, the Speaker stated that he was not in a position to advise the lawmaker about his money. “As far as I’m concerned, that’s his money, and he’s free to do whatever he wants with it, including donating it to a charity in Kamukunji,” the Speaker said. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |