National Super League (NSL) side Modern Coast Rangers Team Manager Ferdinand Ogot has lauded his team for their weekend heroics against second-placed Kenya Police, keeping faith they will not rest on their laurels when they visit in-form APS Bomet on Wednesday. Ogot says their 2-1 victory was the best way to respond after giving a walkover against Silibwet the previous weekend, owing to a mechanical breakdown of their bus en route to the match venue . “The boys played very well and were rewarded with the victory considering that we could not make it to Bomet last weekend. I hope we will replicate our weekend form when we visit APS Bomet.” Elsewhere Murang’a Seal tactician Vincent Nyaberi has attributed his team’ resurgence to his players’ dedication. After a poor start to the season, the St. Sebastian Park-based side regained form with three back-to-back victories propelling them to 14 th on the NSL log three points above the drop zone. Nyaberi has all his players fit for the next match, giving him the confidence he will gather three more points to carry on with their impressive turnaround. “I do not have any injury concerns so far and am grateful for the way my players have responded after a poor start. “We understand that we play in a very competitive league but we will try our best to finish among the best ten teams in the league.” He will hope to defeat his former side Shabana who held off a barrage of last minute attacks from a determined Kibera Black Stars to prevail 1-0 on Friday. Shabana’s weekend victory placed them eighth on the log with 27 points ten points adrift of league leaders Kenya Police. Weekend Results Fortune Sacco 2-1 Kisumu All Star FC Talanta 2-2 Vihiga Bullets Kisumu Hot Stars 1-1 MCF Mt. Kenya United 2-2 APS Bomet Soy United 0-2 Silibwet Leons Nairobi Stima 1-3 Murang’a Seal Modern Coast Rangers 2-1 Kenya Police Shabana 1-0 Kibera Black Stars Coast Stima 1-2 Gusii United FC Talanta 0-0 Migori Youth Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys