Football Kenya Federation (FKF) is currently carrying out Covid-19 tests for Kenyan Premier League clubs in various parts of the country, in anticipation to the league’s resumption on Friday. The league was initially set for restart on Wednesday, but on Monday evening FKF moved to push the date to three days later to pave way for the testing exercise. Bidco United, Mathare United, Gor Mahia, KCB, Karaiobangi Sharks, Posta Rangers and Kakamega Homeboyz on schedule for Tuesday, with Western Stima, AFC Leopards, Bandari, Tusker and Nzoia tests set for Wednesday. The exercise culminates on Thursday when Ulinzi Stars, Sofapaka FC, Wazito FC and Vihiga United take their tests, according to timetable released by FKF. Each club is presenting 25 players and 10 officials for the exercise, as required by the federation which is footing the testing cost. “…We wish to inform you that in accordance with the Ministry of Health and FKF Covid-19 protocols, all premier league clubs must be tested for Covid-19, before the aforementioned planned league kick-off date,” read part of the letter signed by FKF Chief Executive Officer Barry Otieno. Also Read: With the new development, it remains to be seen how the federation will revise the initially released fixtures, running against time to complete the season which was not halfway yet by the time the league was halted in March 2021. Champions Gor Mahia were set to resume with a clash against Wazito FC, while their eternal rivals AFC Leopards would have played Mathare United on Wednesday – the only two fixtures of the day. Friday, the new date for the actual pick up, had a single match on schedule where Kariobangi Sharks were set to host Kakamega Homeboyz. On May 1, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Health to roll-out the Covid-19 further containment protocols to guide the resumption of sporting activities in the country. Nothing has been announced yet, but FKF president Nick Mwendwa said they will go ahead with the league pending further directions. “We will be waiting for the Ministry to guide us if there are further protocols to be followed but we will be starting with strict adherence of the initially set rules. As soon as we are guided we adjust accordingly, Mwendwa said in an earlier interview with Citizen Digital. By the time the league was stopped, Tusker were leading with 36 points, six ahead of second placed KCB while Leopards are third with 29. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |