AFC Leopards assistant coach Tom Juma says the club has not been informed of their opponents for Friday match even as the league gears for kickoff. Juma’s submission comes barely a few days after their planned Wednesday fixture against Mathare United was pushed back to Friday, but he reckons they are yet to receive official communication from the federation on the same. Football Kenya Federation has not announced revised fixtures after the Wednesday restart was postponed, leaving clubs guessing and blindly preparing for their next matches. “We have no idea because we were scheduled to lock horns with Mathare (United) before the match was postponed. In our minds we knew we are facing them today (Wednesday) and then prepare for Nzoia Sugar on Saturday, so we are not even sure whether we are playing Mathare or Nzoia over the weekend,” said Juma. The 12-time champions are however focused on winning the title this season and will continue with their daily training at Gems Cambridge University, in readiness for any changes. “As usual tomorrow (Thursday) and Friday we will be training here at Cambridge University just like we have been doing”, the Leopards legend answered. Also Read: In a related development, Ingwe players and technical bench on Wednesday morning were screened for Covid-19 at the University as championed by the FKF, a key step towards league’s resumption. “We are still in that process (of Covid-19 testing) and when everyone is tested we will be free to go home. We did our training very early in the morning before the tests,” revealed Juma. Meanwhile, Ingwe head coach Patrick Aussems is expected to land in Nairobi on Friday and the postponement of Mathare clash on Wednesday means the Belgian will be able to lead his boys in their first match. Leopards sit third on the 17-team league standings on 29 points, seven shy of leaders Tusker but have two matches in hand. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |