The African Development Bank Group (AfDB) has announced a 36-month debarment of Mactebac Contractors Limited, a company registered in Kenya and Mr. Joram Opala Otieno, the director and shareholder with effect from 15 December 2020. In a statement to newsrooms, the bank said an investigation was conducted by its Office of Integrity and Anti-Corruption. The probe “established that Mactebac Contractors Limited and Mr. Opala Otieno engaged in fraudulent practices during a tender for the Construction Works for Malaba Water and Sanitation Project under the Kenya Towns Sustainable Water Supply and Sanitation Program in Kenya.” According to AfDB, the debarment renders Mactebac Contractors Limited, its affiliates and Mr. Otieno ineligible to participate in Bank Group-financed projects during the debarment period. “Additionally, the debarment qualifies for cross-debarment by other multilateral development banks under the Agreement for Mutual Enforcement of Debarment Decisions, including the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank Group,” the statement reads. AfDB said at the expiry of the debarment period, Mactebac Contractors Limited will only be eligible to participate in Bank Group-financed projects on condition that it implements an integrity compliance program consistent with the Bank’s guidelines. Also Read: Further, the bank said Mr. Otieno will only be eligible to participate in Bank Group-financed projects on condition that he completes an accredited integrity training. AfDB said the construction works for Malaba Water and Sanitation Project was a component of the Kenya Towns Sustainable Water Supply and Sanitation Program in Kenya. The bank noted that the project aimed to improve access, quality, availability and sustainability of water supply in nineteen towns and waste water management services in 17 towns to improve quality of life and resilience against climate variability and change in Kenya. It was co-financed by the African Development Bank. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |