The Judicial Service Commission (JSC) has nominated Justice William Ouko for appointment to the position of Judge of the Supreme Court. Justice Ouko, if appointed, will replace Judge Jackton Ojwang who retired in February 2020. Prof. Olive Mugenda, Vice Chair of the JSC, said the recruitment exercise was open, transparent, competitive, and witnessed the participation of the public and key stakeholders. “…the process has been engaging and rewarding to all the Commissioners who had the opportunity to interact with some of the best legal minds in Kenya in an open process that has revealed the rich legal resource that this country possesses,” said Prof. Mugenda. “We take this opportunity to thank all the candidates who applied and participated in this process for their willingness to serve the country through the vacant positions, and for the courage to be subjected to scrutiny through the interviews.” The commission said that, despite all candidates sharing bold ideas for the transformation of the Judiciary, only one could be selected to fill the position. Also Read: “After deliberations this afternoon and careful consideration of the performance of the various candidates who we interviewed for the position of Judge of the Supreme Court, the Commission has today recommended for appointment Hon. Mr. Justice Ouko William Okello, CBS. EBS, President of the Court of Appeal as Judge of the Supreme Court of Kenya and has submitted his name to His Excellency the President for appointment,” added Prof. Mugenda. “It is our hope that the remaining steps of the selection process for both the Chief Justice and the Judge of the Supreme Court will be concluded soon enough so that they can bring on board the much-needed manpower in the Supreme Court and in the leadership of the Judiciary.” Justice Ouko was born in 1961 in Siaya County. He obtained a Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Nairobi in 1986, a post-graduate Diploma in Law from the Kenya School of Law in 1987 before he was admitted to the Roll of Advocates the same year. In 2016, he pursued and graduated with a Master of Arts in Criminology & Criminal Justice from Egerton University. Ouko has an aggregate of 33 years experience in the legal profession having served in the following capacities:  Video Of The Day: Guns galore