Manchester United recovered to beat Aston Villa 3-1 away in the Premier League on Sunday as Bruno Fernandes, Mason Greenwood and Edinson Cavani scored in the second half to put on hold the title celebrations of champions-elect Manchester City. The result left United second on 70 points from 34 games, 10 behind City who have played a game more and missed a chance to secure the title on Saturday after they suffered a 2-1 home defeat by Chelsea. It also stretched United’s unbeaten away league run to 25 games but came at a cost as manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer revealed captain Harry Maguire may be ruled out of the Europa League final against Spanish side Villarreal on May 26. “It might be a few weeks or a month, we don’t know,” Solskjaer was quoted as saying by United’s official website (www.manutd.com). “It looked like the boy (Anwar El Ghazi) landed on him and he twisted his ankle. I don’t know how serious it is. He might be available on Tuesday (against Leicester City), he might not.” United dominated the early stages and United full back Luke Shaw forced a good save from Emiliano Martinez before Bertrand Traore fired the hosts ahead out of the blue in the 24th minute. Also Read: The Burkinabe forward took advantage of sloppy defending by the visitors, who gave the ball away several times deep in their own half before he turned Victor Lindelof and unleashed a brilliant shot into the top corner from 15 metres. Fernandes equalised with a 52nd-minute penalty, coolly sending Martinez the wrong way, after a series of clumsy challenges by Douglas Luiz sent Paul Pogba tumbling. United forward Greenwood turned the match on its head four minutes later with a neat low shot on the turn from inside the penalty area after shaking off centre back Tyrone Mings. Substitute Edinson Cavani sealed the win with a glancing header in the 87th before Villa striker Ollie Watkins was sent off for a second yellow card after he was adjudged to have dived in United’s area. Villa Boss Dean Smith critcised decisions by referee Chris Kavanagh to award United a penalty and to dismiss Watkins, arguing there was contact between the striker and visiting keeper Dean Henderson. “It (the United penalty) looked a pathetic decision to me, but he goes down, similar to Old Trafford and last season here,” Smith told Sky Sports. “Watkins got sent off for a second yellow. There is no way the referee can tell me he is convinced he hasn’t been touched. I just don’t understand the decision-making of the officials.” Video Of The Day: Guns galore