Youngsters Leroy Kamau and Bob Muhati have expressed desire of becoming regulars at national fifteens rugby squad, the Simbas after earning their maiden call-ups. The two who have played together during their campus days at the Mount Kenya University have been handed a debut call-up to the senior rugby national team. In separate interviews with Citizen Digital the two revealed their ambition to become regulars in the Kenya Simba team with Kamau hopeful of even going further to earn a call up to the Kenya Sevens team. “I feel privileged to have been called up, it has not been easy; blood, sweat and hard work has been my drive and now I need to work hard and show that I merit being there,” Kamau said. The Kenya Harlequins centre is hopeful he will make the final cut of 30 players out of 102 players called up to the national team and in the near future be able to be a competitive figure with his eyes on the prize of earning a call up to the Shujaa squad. Head Coach Paul Odera has called up 102 players to the provisional squad that will kick off preparations with virtual sessions with the decision been dictated by government protocols. Also Read: “This is not an opportunity for me to feel comfortable but rather a challenge to work hard. I want to be consistently present in the national team and slowly cement a place there and hopefully transition to the shorter version,” added Kamau. On the other hand Homeboyz youngster and centre Bob Muhati will have to compete for the same position with his longtime friend Kamau during the selection period and Muhati knows very well it’s not going to be a walk in the park. “I know it is not easy because the competition is tough but I am determined to go all out and do it and now I need to work hard and show that I merit being there,” Muhati said. The 20-year-old has made a huge impression in his opening season for Homeboyz RFC, especially in his ability and power to fend off opponents. His ability to attack the line and create space has seen him named among the most promising players of his generation. “I have been working on for a while now and it was my dream to don the colours of the national team one day,” he explained, adding that, “to be named in the provincial team shows you how God is repaying my hard work.” According to KRU, 20 more players are expected to be dropped to reach the final list of 30 players who will compete in this year’s Rugby Africa Cup. The final squad of 30 players will enter the Stellenbosch camp in June, in readiness for the Rugby Africa Cup where Senegal and Zambia ties lie in wait in July. The management has scheduled several training camps that will compete in this year’s Rugby Africa Cup. Video Of The Day: Guns galore