Kenya Airways (KQ) will resume its domestic flights on Sunday May 2, 2021, following the lifting of the restriction of movement in and out of Nairobi by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The airline said it will fly two times daily to the coastal city of Mombasa and once daily to the lakeside city of Kisumu as it continues to review the option of increasing frequencies as demand picks. “KQ continues to work closely with the Government of Kenya through the Ministry of Health and Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) to enforce safety measures and protocols. The airline’s utmost priority remains the health and safety of the passengers, crew, and staff,” the airline said in a statement. All passengers and airport users are still required to strictly observe the safety measures in place to ensure the safety of all airport users. KQ has advised that passengers familiarize themselves with the health protocols in place including wearing face masks throughout the journey and making use of the sanitiser stations. Nationalizing Kenya Airways:Govt banking on nationalization bill to acquire KQAviation Bill still in parliament, expected out next monthGovt scouting for KQ transactional advisors#FridayNight @lillian_muli pic.twitter.com/p4U8wxDhTR Also Read: — Citizen TV Kenya (@citizentvkenya) January 8, 2021  On March 23, 2021, Kenya Airways reported a near three times loss expansion to Ksh.36.2 billion in the year ended December 31, 2020. This is the largest loss by a corporate in Kenya’s history. The loss acceleration from Ksh.13 billion a year earlier is largely attributable to the collapse of its operations across 2020 on the back of COVID-19 related disruptions. Kenya Airways revenues in the year slumped by 59 per cent to just Ksh.52.8 billion from a higher Ksh128.3 billion in 2019. This is as passenger revenues sunk by Ksh.69.9 billion in the period following the grounding of flights between April and August last year. The total number of passengers carried in the period for instance fell to 1.8 million individuals in contrast to 5.2 million in the preceding year. Other hits to revenues included Ksh.864 million in handling services and a Ksh.5.1 billion wipe out in other revenues. Video Of The Day: Guns galore