The Council of Governors (CoG) has written to the Treasury requesting the release of Ksh.66 billion owed to county governments. In a statement issued on Tuesday, CoG Chairman Governor Martin Wambora urged the Treasury to release the funds to allow County Governments to improve their response measures to the COVID-19, pay pending bills, and develop the counties. “Disbursement of County Equitable Share of revenue as on Monday,May 10, 2021, the National Treasury disbursed a total of Ksh.4.6 Billion to County Governments,” Governor Wambora said. In terms of monies owed, Nairobi City County is owed Ksh.2.6 billion for the months of December and January, while 22 Counties are owed Ksh.10 billion for the month of February. Furthermore, 47 counties are owed Ksh.25 billion for the month of March, and 47 counties are owed Ksh.28 billion for the month of April. The CoG also announced new measures to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus in the same statement. Also Read: A total of 1.1 million facemasks were distributed to learners and trainees in public ECDE Centers and Vocational Training Centers, as well as the installation of 9,431 portable hand washing stations with soap and water in strategic locations throughout learning institutions. Governor Wambora said county governments have also built additional classrooms in collaboration with learning institutions to ensure proper social distancing and safe movement between learners, trainees, teachers, and instructors in classrooms and workshops. In addition, common areas and learning stations are frequently fumigated to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus. Meanwhile, the council has urged Kenyans to be cautious, especially in light of the disease’s new variant. It has also stated that the transportation sector is still a source of concern, urging operators to adhere to carrying capacity, screening, and Health Ministry protocols. “Public transport remains one of the key challenge area that contributes to rapid transmission of the COVID-19 virus,” the statement noted “County Governments have continued to enforce measures put in place to curb the spread of the virus. In light of the reopening of schools we urge the matatu sector to ensure adherence of the strict limit on the number of passengers aboard in PSVs.” Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |