Expectant and lactating mothers visiting Equity Afia medical centres for prenatal, antenatal and well-baby clinics are set to benefit from free medical screening in celebration of Mother’s Day. This follows a partnership between Equity Afia and BIDCO Africa Limited, which will also see the mothers get a wide range of packaged medical services for free including a full body check-up for blood sugar, BMI and blood pressure, antenatal examination for the mothers, nutrition and wellness advice as well as first aid training for infants. The one-week campaign which begins on May 10th and ends on May 14th will also see the mothers receive an Equity Afia branded antenatal care booklet and a Gentle Care hamper. Speaking during the unveiling of the partnership on Thursday at Equity Afia Upperhill, Equity Group Chief Commercial Officer, Polycarp Igathe said: °Mothers play a critical role in the development of the society and they form a large percentage of Equity customers. We therefore felt that appreciating them during this Mother’s Day period is one of the ways we can give back to them.” The partnership will see Bidco Group leverage on Equity Afia’s network of 40 clinics countrywide to reach the end user of its Beverages, Home and Personal Care range of products which include SunTop fruit juice, alcohol-based Gental Care Hand Sanitizers, Hand Wash, and Fabric Softeners. “With the COVID-19 pandemic, mothers who are known to be nurturers and primary care givers had one more worry about the safety of their children and their homes. The coming together of Equity Afia and Bidco Africa will see mothers benefit from customized medical care services offered for free as well as get a Gental Care hamper to enhance proper hand hygiene which is critical in this day and age,” added Igathe. Also Read: The Mother’s Day campaign will run simultaneously at all 40 Equity Afia medical centres across 14 counties which include Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos, Muranga, Nyeri, Meru, Kitui, Nakuru, Kakamega, Trans Nzoia, Kisii, Kisumu and Mombasa. While explaining how mothers across various parts of the country will benefit from the coming together of Equity Afia and BIDCO, Dr. Vimal Shah, BIDCO Group Chairman said: “As a brand that believes in enhancing happy, healthy, and safe living especially in the times of COVID-19, there couldn’t be a better time to reach out to our mothers at their point of need.” “This gesture is part of our continuous community involvement initiatives targeting a key segment of Bidco Africa’s primary market. Let us celebrate mothers not only by reinforcing what we already know about hand hygiene but taking action towards ensuring that every woman has a right to live and survive pregnancy and childbirth,” added Dr. Vimal. The Equity Afia medical centres, which are an initiative of Equity Group Foundation have been established by a network of medical entrepreneurs, who are qualified alumni of the Equity Leaders Program (ELP). Video Of The Day: Guns galore