Shocking details have emerged after detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) identified and arrested the prime suspect in the gruesome murder of National Land Commission (NLC) official Jennifer Wambua. The suspect, Peter Mwangi Njenga alias Ole Sankale, was placed at the scene of crime by forensic evidence as well as witnesses who saw him with the deceased the last time she was seen alive on March 12, 2021. According to the homicide detectives, exhibits collected at the scene of the murder also positively matched the suspect. “Following detailed forensic and intelligence-led investigations, detectives established that the suspect had indeed interacted and spent quite some time with the deceased at the location where the body was later discovered,” stated the DCI. “It was also established that the area is often visited by pilgrims for spiritual intentions. Detectives further established that the suspect preyed on the deceased as she prayed, before he made his move to sexually assault her and strangle her to death.” Sleuths drawn from the Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau (CRIB), upon further profiling of the suspect, established that he was also a jailbird. Also Read: The criminal data system, as stated by the detectives, shockingly revealed that the suspect had committed similar offences in the past, using the same modus operandi of robbing and sexually abusing his victims before killing them. This, they added, was confirmed by both the principal criminal registrar records and prisons where he is said to have served jail terms in the past. “The search was intensified and through the previous finalized criminal files, detectives were able to establish similar crimes committed in replica signature style and manner of subjection to torture and rape,” noted the investigations unit. “Detectives found several other reported cases of the same nature committed by the same suspect and in particular within the same vicinity where he committed the crime. The suspect was found to have had several previous criminal records.” Njenga was in 1996 reportedly charged with stealing and three other counts of robbery with violence and rape. He was on January 15, 2003, convicted and sentenced to death by the Kibera Senior Resident’s Magistrate Court. Detectives investigating Wambua’s murder are now also engaged in finding out the mystery behind how the main suspect, who was supposed to have been serving a life sentence, won his freedom hence giving him the opportunity to strike again. In a murder most foul, Wambua’s body was found half-naked, with an autopsy report later issued by government pathologist Dr. Johansen Oduor confirming that she was sexually assaulted before being killed.  Video Of The Day: Guns galore