Uncapped Ben White, Ben Godfrey, Sam Johnstone and Aaron Ramsdale have been named in England’s 33-man provisional Euro 2020 squad, while Trent Alexander-Arnold also makes the cut. Aston Villa striker Ollie Watkins is also named, but Leeds’ Patrick Bamford misses out. Gareth Southgate will name his final 26-man squad on Tuesday, 1 June. Leicester’s James Maddison, Tottenham’s Eric Dier and injured Burnley keeper Nick Pope are left out. One of the major talking points had been about Liverpool right-back Alexander-Arnold, who was dropped for Southgate’s last squad in March. With Atletico Madrid’s La Liga winner Kieran Trippier, Manchester City’s Premier League champion Kyle Walker and Chelsea’s Reece James also in the squad, one of them is likely to miss out. Also Read: There are three teenagers included – Borussia Dortmund’s 17-year-old midfielder Jude Bellingham, plus Arsenal’s Bukayo Saka and Manchester United forward Mason Greenwood, who are both 19. England face Croatia (13 June – 14:00 BST), Scotland (18 June – 20:00) and the Czech Republic (22 June – 20:00) in Group D with all those games at Wembley. Before then, they play two friendlies at Wembley – against Austria on 2 June and Romania on 6 June. All the reaction to England’s provisional Euros squad – Southgate and your thoughts ‘We have to build a team to win’ – Southgate explains key decisions England’s provisional 33-man squad in full Goalkeepers: Dean Henderson (Man Utd), Sam Johnstone (West Brom), Jordan Pickford (Everton), Aaron Ramsdale (Sheff Utd) Defenders: John Stones (Man City), Luke Shaw (Man Utd), Harry Maguire (Man Utd), Trent Alexander-Arnold (Liverpool), Kyle Walker (Man City), Tyrone Mings (Aston Villa), Reece James (Chelsea), Conor Coady (Wolves), Ben Chilwell (Chelsea), Ben Godfrey (Everton), Kieran Trippier (Atletico Madrid), Ben White (Brighton) Midfielders: Mason Mount (Chelsea), Declan Rice (West Ham), Jordan Henderson (Liverpool), Jude Bellingham (Borussia Dortmund), Phil Foden (Man City), Jack Grealish (Aston Villa), Kalvin Phillips (Leeds), Jesse Lingard (Man Utd), James Ward-Prowse (Southampton), Bukayo Saka (Arsenal) Forwards: Harry Kane (Tottenham), Marcus Rashford (Man Utd), Raheem Sterling (Man City), Dominic Calvert-Lewin (Everton), Mason Greenwood (Man Utd), Ollie Watkins (Aston Villa), Jadon Sancho (Borussia Dortmund) Who are the newcomers? Goalkeeper Johnstone, 28, was relegated from the Premier League with West Brom. He was named in the England squad in March but did not play. Sheffield United keeper Aaron Ramsdale, 23, played every league game this season as his side were also relegated. He would appear to be the most likely keeper to miss out on the final squad. Brighton defender White, 23, has never played for England at any level. This was his first Premier League season and he impressed in a back three – which could be a big factor if Southgate plans to use that system. Everton defender Godfrey, also 23, joined the Toffees for a reported £20m from Norwich last season and had an impressive debut season at the club. Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years