Vihiga Queens have resumed training ahead of the inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League zonal qualifying tournament where they will represent Kenya. The competition is scheduled to take place from July 17 to August 1 with 11 clubs from the Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations (CECAFA) countries taking part. In an interview with Citizen Digital, the clubs head coach Alex Alumira has said they have fully resumed their physical training after the government allowed the resumption of sports. Alumira however is confident that his charges will regain their form and is looking forward to registering positive results of the upcoming tournament. “My aim was to bolster my squad by signing three new players but I believe the squad we have is still very competitive and that’s what I’ll work with. “We are the East Africa champions as it come to women football and I am confident that we shall represent Kenya well, I am just urging my players to stay focused in the training,” Alumira said. Also Read: This will be the first ever CAF Champions League zonal qualifier which will be a build up to the Women’s Champions League to be staged in Morocco later this year. The Confederation of African Football had earlier unveiled the official plan and qualification format for the first ever women’s champions league. Each of the Caf zones including Council of East and Central Africa Football Association (Cecafa), Council of South African Football Association (Cosafa), Union of Football Federations of Central Africa (UNIFFAC), West African Football Union (Wafu) and Union of North African Football Association (UNAF) will organize qualifiers that will produce the six top teams. Afterwards, two other teams will be added – the host nation and another from the combined CAF zones tournaments’ best loser, to make it eight. The final eight teams will then be divided into two groups of four teams each for a face off for the Champions League title. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |