The tussle between Zoo FC chairman and FKF President Nick Mwendwa took an ugly twist on Tuesday after the federation announced it had expelled the Kericho based team from the top-tier league , on recommendation from Fifa, over alleged manipulation of matches, relegating the team to the second-tier league, the National Super League. In a move that is likely to open a can of worms,  and more legal fights between the former allies turned foes, the federation said, ” We wish to inform you that we are in receipt of correspondence from FIFA dated May 4, 2021 with regard to a FIFA Disciplinary Committee ruling against your club on grounds of manipulation of football matches and competition. ‘In view of the aforementioned decision, FKF has expelled  your club from the 2020/2021 FKF  Premier League and relegated Zoo FC to the National Super League(NSL) for the season  2021/2022. We thank you taking note and for your  good understanding.” Zoo and the federation have been at loggerheads over the broadcast monies, payable to the top-tier clubs from broadcast sponsors StarTimes. Alongside Gor Mahia, Ulinzi Stars and Mathare United, Zoo declined to sign the broadcast deal, with the federation ‘kicking’ them out of the top division, before the Sports Disputes Tribunal reinstated them. Also Read: And the Fifa ruling, a copy in our possession, the three- man FIfa Disciplinary Committee comprising Alejandro Piera from Paraguay, Kia Tong Lim(Singapore) and Thomas Hollerer(Austria), ruled that ” Zoo FC are responsible for activities related to manipulation of football matches and competitions. “The club Zoo FC is hereby expelled from the Kenyan Premier League Season  2020/2021 as of the  date of notification of the present decision. The FIFA Disciplinary Committee hereby orders the relegation of the first team of the club Zoo FC to the FKF Division One for the next season. The FIFA Disciplinary  Committee orders the club Zoo FC to contact FIFA in the next 30 days from the notification of this decision and implement a prevention plan as an educational directive designed to prevent and combat the manipulation of football matches and competitions.” More to follow… Video Of The Day: Guns galore