Deputy President William Ruto and his allies have reacted to the High Court ruling that declared the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) driven Constitution of Kenya Amendment 2020 ruling as unconstitutional. The five-judge bench of Justices Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Jairus Ngaah, Teresia Matheka and Chacha Mwita said an amendment can either be initiated by a Parliamentary or popular initiative, not the President. The judges cited the president for again failing to actualise the constitutional requirement on public participation accusing him of coming short of violating a law he vowed to defend when he took his oath of office as the fourth President of the Republic of Kenya. The court also found that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) had the sole role of determining boundaries and that the BBI proposal for the creation of 70 new constituencies was against the law and went against the principle of public participation. DP Ruto, taking to social media after the ruling, said: “There is a God in heaven who loves Kenya immeasurably. May God’s name be praised forever.” There is GOD in heaven who loves kenya immeasurably. May GOD'S name be PRAISED forever. Also Read: — William Samoei Ruto, PhD (@WilliamsRuto) May 13, 2021  Former Senate Majority Leader and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, on his part, commended the five-judge bench saying their contribution to the history of Kenya. “They are part of the few remaining Kenyan prophets who have not bowed down to Baal. God bless you,” he wrote. When the history of Kenya is properly written,the contribution of Justices Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Jairus Ngaah,Chacha Mwita and Teresia Matheka will be written in golden letters.They are part of the few remaining Kenyan prophets who have not bowed down to Baal.God bless you. — KIPCHUMBA MURKOMEN, E.G.H (@kipmurkomen) May 13, 2021  Below are a few more reactions from perceived DP Ruto allies: Summary of the FIVE judge judgment: "Mr. President, you are not a KING and Kenyans are not your SLAVES. Sovereignty lies with WANJIKU" — Ahmednasir Abdullahi SC (@ahmednasirlaw) May 14, 2021  #BBIJudgement I said it before that the BBI Steering Committee was unconstitutional and that it was a decoy for embezzling public funds. I also stated that President Uhuru Kenyatta does not have the powers neither mandate to appoint a committee to review the constitution. — Sen.Johnson Nduya Muthama (@nduyamuthama) May 14, 2021  Listening to these 5 patriotic judges in their ruling on the #BBINonsense, I wonder what's going on in the minds of H.E. Uhuru & @RailaOdinga who've been running roughshod on Kenyans, the MCAs who were bribed a cool Sh 4.5billion & MPs & Senators who voted like robotsI wonder.. — Dr Boni Khalwale CBS, MBChB (@KBonimtetezi) May 13, 2021  Some monster dubbed party position, caused Orengo SC,Otiende Amollo & Omugeni to vote yes even though they had raised serious concerns on BBI. — Hon Caleb Kositany MP Soy (@ckositany) May 13, 2021  Sudden death of BBI in the Courts. Rest in eternal Peace . — Hon Alice Wahome (@WahomeHon) May 13, 2021  We never had a constitutional moment. We had hubris of two unpopular men — NoReferendumBeforeElections (@HonMoses_Kuria) May 13, 2021  Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |