The National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOC-K) is expecting more athletes to qualify for the Tokyo Games set for July 23-August 8 in the Japanese capital, Tokyo. With 53 days remaining until the start of the Games, some 90 athletes have already booked their tickets at the largest sporting extravaganza with some teams yet to finalise their qualification paths. In a consultative meeting with respective federations on Monday, NOC-K also revealed that Kenya’s team for the Games will leave for a pre-Olympic training camp in Kurume City on July 5 where they will intensify their training before heading to Tokyo five days to the Games kick-off. Athletics, triathlon, judo, weightlifting, karate, shooting, canoe and rowing and beach volleyball are the sports still in contention for slots at the Summer Games. Athletics Kenya which is expected to form the largest part of the Kenyan contingent are set to hold their trials on June 17-19 which will be preceded by one-day pre-trials camp on June 16. With Japan still grappling with the effects of Covid-19 pandemic, athletes will have to conform to the strict conditions set by the organisers and captured in the Playbook version 2. Also Read: “The delegation will also need to present a covid-19 negative test and to download smart phone Apps for contact tracing (COCOA) & Health Reporting App before arrival in Japan,” read a statement from NOC-K. Furthermore, Teams will arrive in Tokyo five days before their competition and leave 48 hours after they finish their individual disciplines. NOC-K also revealed that the team will be adequately funded by the Ministry of Sports, Culture and Heritage through the Sports Fund. The fund has been funding the qualifiers, bubble camps, Covid-testing and vaccination. At the same time, NOC-K on its part has funded teams and athletes with grants and scholarships, provided kitting for qualifiers and training, supplement the teams technical expertise and is carrying out regular education and awareness sessions. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys