AFC Leopards winger Peter Thiong`o says there’s a strong feeling within the team that they can fend off all challengers to win the league title this term, the first in over two decades. Leopards, the country’s second most successful club, last won top-flight league title in 1998 and Thiong`o believes the current squad has the quality to end the title hoodoo. The former Kakamega Homeboyz prodigy conceded the break orchestrated by the Covid-19 pandemic affected their momentum, but they are getting back and determined to go all the way. “The league suspension halted our momentum in the league because prior to it we were really doing well. The fixture will definitely be tight but we are going to give our best,”Thiong`o told Citizen Digital. “Of course we will not start from where we were in terms of match and physical fitness, but it will eventually happen when we start to play. As players, we are prepared to give our best because as a team, we feel this is a massive opportunity for us to get the league title. This is our time,” he concluded. In the 14 matches played this season, the Patrick Aussems coached charges have won nine games, drawn two, and lost three while scoring 18 goals and conceding nine in the process. Also Read: They are primed to take on 2008 champions Mathare United on Wednesday if the anticipated resumption goes on as planned. The ‘Slum Boys’ are bottom of the table with six points from the 13 games they have played. The Salim Ali-led team has won just one game this season, drawing thrice and losing nine, scoring 10 goals and conceded 22. On the same day, Wazito FC are scheduled to host reigning champions Gor Mahia. The hosts have been doing well this season after struggles in the initial campaigns. They are placed sixth on the table with 22 points after six wins, four draws and as many losses from the 14 games they have played. They have scored 14 goals and conceded as many. On the other hand, K’Ogalo are eighth with three points less after six wins, a draw and six losses as well. They have scored 20 goals and conceded 17. Video Of The Day: Guns galore