Wajir Deputy Governor Ahmed Ali Muktar has been sworn in as the Governor for Wajir County following the Senate’s move to uphold the impeachment of Mohamed Abdi Mohamud. Muktar was sworn in Tuesday midday at the Wajir County headqurters by Justice Said Chitembwe after the gazettement of Mohamud’s impeachment by Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka. He becomes the  third governor of Wajir County. YANAYOJIRI: Ahmed Ali Muktar Aapishwa Kuwa Gavana Wa Wajir pic.twitter.com/4n3KKkYhpQ — Citizen TV Kenya (@citizentvkenya) May 18, 2021  The former Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud was impeached on grounds of Gross violation of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010; the County
Government Act, 2012; the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2015; and the Public Finance Management Act, 2012. “PURSUANT to section 33 (6) (b) of the County Government Act,2012 and Standing Order 75 of the Senate Standing Orders, the Senate, after according Mohamed Abdi Mohamud, the Governor of Wajir County, an opportunity to be heard, did on Monday, 17th May, 2021, resolve to impeach Mohamed Abdi Mohamud, the Governor of Wajir County on the following ground; namely— Gross violation of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010; the County Government Act, 2012; the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2015; and the Public Finance Management Act, 2012,” reads the Gazette Notice dated May 17, 2021. Mohamud’s impeachment trial was held by an 11-member Committee which submitted to the Senate an 144-page report recommending his removal. 25 Senators out of 47 upheld the impeachment of the Governor by the County Assembly surpassing the required threshold of a simple majority of 24 votes. Two Senators opposed the impeachment while four abstained the vote. The Wajir County Assembly alleged that the governor “had caused the health sector to run into disarray that had compromised right to the highest attainable health standards; and also that, “over Ksh.2.4 billion had been allocated to the department of medical service but the county referral hospital lab could not conduct COVID-19 tests due to faulty test kits and lack of reagents. ” In his defense, the governor denied that healthcare in Wajir had suffered under his leadership adding that the allegations levelled against him do not meet the threshold of impeachment. “The main impeachment is said to be gross violation of the constitution by not providing adequate health facilities…according to me…, we have provided enough…I could be impeached for violation of the constitution but it cannot be for gross misconduct,” the Governor told the Senate on Monday. The Wajir governor is the 9th county boss to face impeachment since the promulgation of the new constitution with two of his colleagues namely Mike Sonko and Ferdinand Waititu removed from office for gross misconduct.  Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |