Dozens of Japanese towns have abandoned plans to host Olympics athletes due to concerns they will overburden already stretched medical resources amid a fourth wave of coronavirus infections, the Nikkei newspaper reported on Thursday. Forty out of more than 500 towns registered to welcome international competitors had decided not to accept athletes for training camps and cultural exchanges before the global sporting showpiece, the newspaper reported citing a government source. The reluctance of some towns to host visiting athletes, normally a source of pride for communities outside the host city, is the latest sign of deep unease in Japan over the scheduling of the Games in the middle of a pandemic. The Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games were postponed last year and are currently scheduled to take place from July 23 to Aug. 8 despite a surge in infections and a state of emergency in the host city. Chiba Governor Toshihito Kumagai said the prefecture would not guarantee hospital beds for the athletes as they should not be given preferential treatment. “Chiba prefecture is not thinking about securing scarce hospital beds … for athletes and people involved in the Olympic Games in a way that would prohibit our residents from using them,” Kumagai told reporters. Also Read: Shiro Hasegawa, an official at Okuizumo Town, said it was no longer possible to host India’s hockey team for pre-Games training as planned before the pandemic struck. Overseas athletes also will not participate in a test event for the Olympics BMX freestyle cycling, the Yomiuri newspaper said on Thursday. Hospitals Stretched Some municipalities have expressed concern about how Japan’s medical system would cope if the Games turned into a superspreader event, concerns shared by the country’s top medical adviser. The International Olympic Committee on Wednesday said it supported Japanese measures to counter COVID-19 and was confident the Tokyo Olympics would be a “historic” event. Public opposition to the Games is growing as Japan struggles to contain a fourth wave of infections which is pushing medical resources to the brink. The government has been criticised for not locking down the economy hard enough and bungling the vaccine rollout, with only 2.8% of the population inoculated, the lowest rate among wealthy countries. Japan reported more than 7,000 new infections on Wednesday, with 969 cases in Tokyo. About 700 new cases were confirmed on Thursday in the northern prefecture of Hokkaido where the Olympic marathon will take place, media reported, marking a record high. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |