ODM leader Raila Odinga has said he does not support an Inter-Parties Parliamentary Group (IPPG) for the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Bill. Speaking during an interview on Radio Ramogi on Monday, the former PM said he is confident the legal team constituted for the appeal case will win. “The handshake was not meant only for Uhuru and Raila and will not only benefit the Nyanza region but all Kenyans. We want it to be sustainable that is why we brought the BBI to avert favouritism as all Kenyans pay tax and are entitled to government projects,” he said. According to him, the amounts given to counties as at now is not enough to implement projects as most counties use them for recurrent expenditure. He said the BBI seeks to increase the share to 35% to enable counties do development projects. President Uhuru Kenyatta commissions two key road and water projects in Siaya County. pic.twitter.com/dcBJOfgbF1 Also Read: — State House Kenya (@StateHouseKenya) May 31, 2021  With regards to the Madaraka Day celebrations in Kisumu on Tuesday, Raila urged residents to wear masks and ensure social distancing. “There will be set ways of making them social distance and see that they adhere to the set rules of managing COVID spread. People will be arranged in the stadium as will be set by the organisers as we cannot have a celebration without them,” he said. State House confirmed the venue for the Madaraka Day fete as Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium but said due to the Covid-19 situation, entry will be limited. State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena-Mararo said the number of citizens attending event has been highly reduced and admission to the stadium will be strictly by invitation card. “His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta would like to, once again, appeal to all Kenyans to continue observing the Covid-19 containment measures, even as they observe the 58th Madaraka Day Celebrations. “The President particularly appeals to the passionate residents of Kisumu City to give the best account of themselves by avoiding situations that may compromise national efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic,” the statement from State House reads. Last year, Madaraka Day celebrations were held at the State House gardens in Nairobi following the ban of mass gatherings as part of measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus in the country.  Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys