Law Society of Kenya Secretary/CEO Mercy Wambua sent a congratulatory message to Chief Justice Martha Koome following her swearing in on Friday. Also Read: LSK boss Nelson Havi tells off CJ Martha Koome over apology demand In her statement, the CEO said the appointment of CJ Koome as the country‘s first female Chief Justice is a historic milestone. “This demonstrates the commitment by the Country to ensure the attainment of Kenya‘s constitutional gender equality and one of the seventeen Sustainable Development Goals established by the United Nations in 2015,” the advocate said.  She said the LSK is confident that the new CJ Koome has the “wherewithal, knowledge, skill, diligence and the correct temperament”as was demonstrated from her illustrious career, the testimonials of colleagues in the profession, her exemplary performance during the televised interviews and subsequent vetting by Parliament. Also Read: Additionally, the advocate said CJ Koome has a rich history of a successful career attributable to her enduring humility and servant leadership. “As the President of the Supreme Court, it is our sincere hope that she will exercise remarkable influence in promoting justice, constitutionalism and the rule of law,” Wambua said. She noted that CJ Koome takes office at a time when there is a developing culture of impunity and attacks on judicial officers by parties dissatisfied with court orders. The advocate was categorical that the Council of the Law Society of Kenya condemns in the strongest terms possible the continued wanton attacks on judicial officers and assures its unwavering support to the Chief Justice, as she leads in the fight against the culture of impunity and intimidation of judicial officers. She further assured that the Council is looking forward to working with the CJ, in supporting her efforts and those of the entire Judiciary towards promoting judicial independence, constitutionalism, access to justice and advancement of the rule of law, heralding an era of pragmatic respect for court orders.  “We are confident that the Honourable Chief Justice will prioritize the realization of sustainable administration through completion of the judicial transformation journey, digitization of judicial operations, devolution and improved infrastructure. “The Law Society of Kenya expects more interdependence amongst all the three arms of the Government and institutional accord which will enhance smooth operations of the Judiciary, adequate funding through an entrenched Judiciary Fund without compromising the functional and institutional mandate of the Judiciary,” the LSK statement reads. The statement comes amidst the tussle between LSK President Nelson Havi and CJ Koome. On May 4, 2021, Havi dared CJ Koome “to do her worst”, vowing not to apologise or retract the  memoranda he presented to the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) during the recent interviews. In his memoranda, Havi had questioned Koome’s handling of three cases saying she was  influenced by nepotism, favouritism and improper motive and that she often ruled in favour of the Executive. In his letter to Koome’s lawyers, Havi alleged a plot to intimidate him against questioning Koome’s suitability ahead of her second round of vetting by the justice and legal affairs committee which has already urged the public to submit information on her suitability. Koome had given Havi seven days to apologise or she would initiate a law suit for libel and defamation. In respose, the LSK president dismissed Koome’s ultimatum saying he will not withdraw the memoranda neither would he apologise or admit liability. Havi maintains that the contents of the memoranda were true. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |