Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has gone on a ranting spree amid reports that he is among former and current county bosses being probed by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) for allegedly acquiring illicit wealth while occupying public office. Sonko, in a series of tweets on Wednesday, distanced himself from the probe saying he started owning property when he was still in school. According to the embattled former Nairobi County boss, his silence following his ouster should not be taken for foolishness as he will not take the allegations lying down. “Being silent is not being foolish kwani owning property in this country is a problem? I started owning, buying and selling property when I was in school and before I became the Governor. Mutashangaa…labda muulize hao wengine,” he said. He further fired back at EACC questioning the actions the commission has taken against one of their former bosses whom he alleged was involved in the KEMSA COVID billionaires scandal. “Kwani what have you done to the former EACC boss who was involved in the Kemsa Covid Billionaires scandal. What have you done to one of your current bosses who was involved in the grabbing of a County school playground in South C?” he posed. Also Read: “What have you done with your former and current bosses who were involved in the fraudulent sale of Integrity Centre at an exaggerated price at the expense of taxpayers?” EACC on Tuesday said it is probing the alleged illegal acquisition of properties worth a reported Ksh.11.5 billion by three former governors and one who is currently still in office. The four are; Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal and former county bosses Evans Kidero (Nairobi), Mike Sonko (Nairobi) as well as Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu). This was according to EACC Chairman Eliud Wabukala who spoke when he appeared before the Senate Justice and Legal Affairs Committee. Wabukala also revealed that the commission had seized assets worth Ksh.25 billion stolen from the public over the last five years. Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years