An 8-year-old girl from Kitengela who was abducted over the weekend has been found dead with the body wrapped in a sack. Also Read: Bodies of three men who went missing in Kitengela recovered The parents had filed a report with the police after their daughter disappeared over the weekend. “They started receiving strange phone calls from people demanding Ksh. 300,000 so that they could give them back their daughter,” the police statement reads.  Isinya Sub-County Police Commmander Ben Changuo said the parents reported their daughter missing on Saturday, May 29, 2021. Also Read: He said the girl’s body was discovered wrapped in a sack and dumped near Orata bridge on Monday. “Mwili huo ulipatikana na waakazi wa waliokuwa wakipita barabarani ambapo waligundua kitu kilichokuwa kimetupwa katika eneo hilo ikiwa ndani ya gunia, baadaye ikabainika kuwa ulikuwa ni mwili wa mtoto huyo mdogo,” the police boss said. The body has since been taken to Kitengela hospital mortuary for postmortem as investigations into the murder get underway. In April, four men vanished shortly after meeting for lunch at a pub in Kitengela. Three bodies have since been found. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) formed a special team to investigate the case.  One body was discovered with the upper limbs hacked while another was found in river Mukungai which is just a few metres away from river Mathioya. The third body was discovered in Kieni forest, Gatundu North constituency, in the neighboring Kiambu county. The whereabouts of Brian Oduor, the group’s fourth member, are currently unknown. Their car, a white Toyota Mark X, was discovered abandoned the next day in a parking lot about 500 meters from the club and towed to the nearest police station. Speculation about their business dealings continues to grow but police sources have refused to divulge any information on the day to day activities of the group. Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys