Absa Bank Kenya on Saturday handed over Ksh. 8.8million raised during the Magical Kenya Open and the Kenya Savannah Classic under the Birdies for Good initiative. The funds will go towards supporting a women’s bead-making enterprise, tree planting and provision of sanitary pads to school going girls in Laikipia and Samburu counties respectively. The projects include; Lekiji Baraka Women- a women empowerment project in Laikipia County, Kina Green Ambassadors and Bright Future Foundation in Samburu County which provides ‘pad banks’ for girls and women; will each receive Ksh2.9 million via Absa’s Wall of Possibilities initiative. The Wall of Possibilities was an initiative mooted during the bank’s first year anniversary where Kenyans were invited to submit community-based causes that require support in order to continue serving local communities. Speaking during the handover ceremony, Absa Bank Chief Strategy Officer Mr. Moses Muthui said that the projects are aligned with the bank’s commitment to operate sustainably and achieve reduced overall negative impact on human health, the natural environment and effects of climate change. “We are intentional about contributing to projects that improve the society and promote sustainable development. The Wall of Possibilities’ aim was to support local deserving community organisations that are making a real difference in their communities. As a bank whose heartbeat syncs with that of the people we serve, we know that community groups have equally been severely impacted by COVID-19 and the work they do is important in enabling their communities’ growth. For this reason, I am delighted that we are providing timely support to these community projects.” Also Read: Keith Waters, Chief Operating Officer at the European Tour said: “One of the key pillars of Golf for Good, the European Tour’s CSR programme, is to support worthy causes in the countries and communities where the Tour plays. “We have enjoyed a wonderful relationship with Kenya over many years and therefore we very much wanted to help Absa in this important initiative in any way we could. Absa Kenya committed to spend Kes 5 million to support community-based initiatives while the European Tour came on board as a partner and committed to match Absa’s donation shilling for shilling, raising a total of Ksh3.8 million from the back-to-back tournaments which were played at the Karen Country Club in Nairobi this year. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |