Sidian Bank, an SME focused bank, has announced their Q1 2021 financial results. The bank made a consolidated net profit of Ksh.114 million as at March 31, 2021 compared to a net loss of Ksh.7 million in the same period last year. The improved profitability was attributed to increased lending in the period which grew interest income on loans as well as lending fees. Transactional and channels business also increased in the period enhancing the profitability. Further, loan impairment provisions booked in the quarter were lower by 58% attributed to the improved loan book quality and loan collections. The impact of the increased incomes was however countered by higher interest expense on customer deposits from customer deposits growth and increased money market borrowings. The Bank’s balance sheet has largely remained the same at Ksh33.4 billion as at March 31, 2021 compared to Ksh.33.5 billion as at December 31, 2020 with the Bank optimizing the balance sheet to earn higher incomes than last year with the same size of balance sheet. In the quarter, net loans and advances increased by 8% supported by the high liquidity and in line with the Bank’s strategy to support SMEs growth. Also Read: Customer deposits increased by 1% attributed to continued deposits mobilization and customer acquisition across the Bank’s 42 branches as well as increased transactional business from the bank’s customers. Trade Finance continues to be the flagship product of the Bank, with more SME customers using the Bank’s online bid bond platform, Sidian Credible. This solution embraces the Bank’s customers and potential customers. Equally, the Bank has innovated robust digital solutions to provide its customers alternative banking channels which has contributed to the growth of non-funded income. Further, Bancassurance income grew in the period attributed to higher insurance transaction volumes. Chege Thumbi, the Bank’s CEO noted, “As a Bank, we are pleased with this performance as it confirms that our growth is on an upward trajectory. We are especially grateful to our customers for supporting us as we continue offering them custom made solutions to better their tomorrow. We are committed to supporting SMEs in the country to maximize their potential.”   Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years