The United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party associated with Deputy President William Ruto has welcomed the move by the Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria-led People’s Empowerment Party (PEP) to withdraw from the upcoming by-elections in Kiambaa Constituency and Muguga Ward in Kabete, Kiambu County. In a statement issued on Monday, UDA Secretary General Veronica Maina said the withdrawal by PEP was a quid pro quo following UDA’s move to support them in the Juja Constituency by-election. “We appreciate People’s Empowerment Party (PEP) decision to support United Democratic Alliance (UDA) candidates in Kiambaa Constituency and Muguga Ward in Kabete, Kiambu County. It will be recalled UDA supported PEP in the recent successful Juja parliamentary by-election and it’s on this gesture that they have withdrawn their candidate in Kiambaa,” reads statement. The Secretary General further clarified that UDA is “neither Hon Johnston Muthama’s party nor is it managed by sitting MPs.” “On the contrary, UDA is the Hustler’s party,” said Ms. Maina. She added: “It is also important to point out that it is not true that the People’s Democratic Party (POP) belongs to Hon Omingo Magara. In fact, in the spirit of the Hustler Nation, he has left the PDP and joined the UDA. In the same vein, the Hon Mwangi Kiunjuri of The Service Party has been consulting with UDA on a united approach in the fielding of candidates and other Hustler Nation activities.” Also Read: Moses Kuria, who also doubles up as the Gatundu South MP, said the decision to withdraw from the by-election was arrived at for the unity of the Hustler Nation following discussions with Deputy President William Ruto. According to the legislator, PEP was set to participate in the July 15 polls but that did not go down well with his fellow Hustler Nation MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira) and Kimani Ichung’wah (Kikuyu) hence has been forced to withdraw. Video Of The Day: | SUCCESS AND AFTER | Tracking the progress made by students who topped KCSE in past years