The National Olympic Committee (NOC-K) has on Tuesday received Sh. 45 million sponsorship for Team Kenya ahead of the Tokyo 2020 Games, from the Kenya Breweries Limited (KBL). KBL Managing Director John Musunga delivered the sponsorship cheque to the NOC-K president Paul Tergat, who was flanked by Team Kenya’s chef de mission for the Tokyo Games, Waithaka Kioni. Also present were Team Kenya’s General Manager Barnaba Korir and Ministry of Sports Secretary of Administration Josephine Onunga, who represented Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed. Musunga expressed their delight in being part of Team Kenya to the Tokyo Games, a partnership he says connects them with Kenyans the more. “Kenya Breweries has been at the vanguard of connecting with Kenyans through sports. Our footprint in different sporting disciplines from athletics, football to golf and rugby dates back decades. We are confident the partnership with Team Kenya is another great opportunity to express our continued support for our sports men and women as they represent us in Tokyo,” said Musunga. Musunga was specific on Kenya’s athletics history, noting that the sport has for a long time been a key factor in bringing Kenyans together, an aspect he says is shared by Tusker as a brand. Also Read: “The greatest impact of our athletes has always been that they always bring us together as Kenyans and put us on the global map. It’s always a proud moment for every Kenyan when our athletes take on the world stage, winning medals and breaking world records.” As part of the partnership, KBL will also be involved in the production of the travelling kit for Team Kenya heading to Tokyo Olympics adding that they will engage some of Kenya’s top young designers to design the kit, being part of its efforts to support arts in the country. CS Amina, in her message delivered by Onunga, accentuated the role played by corporates including KBL that has been significant in sport and community development in the country. “I would like to assure you of the government’s commitment to continue working closely with the private sector to bring sports back to life following challenges occasioned by Covid-19 pandemic,” said Amina. Amina also noted all the Olympic-bound athletes have been vaccinated against Covid-19, and the government is planning to provide the second dose in due course. A thankful Tergat welcomed the partnership noting the KBL has been a great partner with NOC-K, having supported Team Kenya for the 2012 London and 2016 Rio Olympics. “We are grateful to KBL for their continued support to Team Kenya. This sponsorship speaks to the brand’s continued commitment to the growth and development of athletics and sports in general in the country. We are pleased that KBL has continued to stand by us, even now, under the tough COVID-19 environment. This sponsorship will no doubt be very important in preparing the team which will be representing us in the games,” said Tergat. Kenya intends to take a team of 100 sportsmen and women for the Summer Games, which are set to kick-off on July 23. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |