World Under 20 Local Organizing Committee chairman Rtd Lt General Jackson Tuwei has assured the rest of the world that the country is on course to staging the prestigious event in August. He said the country has put measures is place to ensure that the event is not only safe from the Covid-19 pandemic but other threats. “There is no cause for alarm. We successfully hosted the 2017 World Under 18 Championships here at Moi Stadium, Kasarani and we hope to enhance security during the World Under 20 Championships in August,” he said. Tuwei was speaking at Moi International Sports Centre, where he received sports kits for officials and volunteers for the World Under 20 showpiece. He said they are still waiting for more consignments for technical, training and competition equipment, adding that they expect everything to be shipped in by July. Tuwei, who is also the Athletics Kenya chairman, said he expects the World Athletics team to arrive in Kenya next month for the final inspection and it’s a race against time to ensure everything is aligned. Also Read: “Already we are at 80percent in as far as the stadium is concerned and we hope to be ready in the next one month,” he said,  adding: “At least we are somewhere and there is light at the end of the tunnel in as far as hosting the event is concerned. Of course, we have had our challenges with the main one being Covid-19, but judging from the progress, I am happy to say we are very much on course,” he noted. He said the LOC offices are ready while the warm-up field was being finalized. The Media Tribune and Media Centre were in progress.
“Generally a lot is happening at Kasarani and we can already feel the arrival of this event,” he added. According to Tuwei,  athletes around the globe have missed action for long and the World Under 20 grants them the platform to re-launch themselves as it will not only provide a forum for competition but also a chance for visiting athletes and officials to sample the country’s hospitality. He said, like the rest of the world, they are taking Covid seriously and there are already measures put in place to ensure the visitors are safe. Three doctors from the Local Organizing Committee were in Poland during the World Relays Championships to look at the Covid protocols at international level, hence they will be key in executing the same here. LOC CEO Myke Rabar said he is happy everything is taking shape and it is all systems go with 97 days to the championships.
“We are now looking at the milestones and the timelines. This equipment that we have received is for specific groups, and we will distribute it at the right time to the right users,” he concluded. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |