A calculated move by Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich to replace club icon Frank Lampard with Thomas Tuchel in mid-season paid off handsomely on Saturday when the club beat Manchester City 1-0 to claim their second Champions League title. The 54-year-old Abramovich, who took over Chelsea in 2003 and has since overseen five Premier League titles and two Champions League crowns, has employed 15 different managers in the intervening 18 years and is not known for his patience. When Lampard was not delivering as manager earlier in the season, he was quickly shown the door. The former midfielder had started the season well with Chelsea topping the Premier League and their Champions League group, but a run of two wins in eight games saw him dismissed in January, accompanied by a rare public statement from Abramovich. “This was a very difficult decision for the club, not least because I have an excellent personal relationship with Frank and I have the utmost respect for him,” Abramovich said. “He is a man of great integrity and has the highest of work ethics. However, under current circumstances we believe it is best to change managers.” Also Read: With that Chelsea’s all-time top scorer was gone and Tuchel, who coached the Paris St Germain team that lost last year’s Champions League final to Bayern Munich, was swiftly brought in to replace him, with this latest European triumph the result. “I spoke to the owner on the pitch, it was the best moment for our first meeting – or maybe the worst because it can only get worse now” Tuchel joked following the final whistle. “We will speak again and I can assure him I will stay hungry. I feel hungry, part of a really ambitious club and a strong group that supports my beliefs in football perfectly.” Abramovich, a very private individual, later explained the decision to sack Lampard in a rare interview with Forbes. “I think we are pragmatic in our choices, and we are comfortable making the right changes at the right time to ensure we can achieve our long-term ambitions,” he said. As well as pumping hundreds of millions of euros into the men’s side, Abramovich has invested heavily in Chelsea’s women’s team, who won the Women’s Super League this season but lost their Champions League final 4-0 to Barcelona two weeks ago.  Video Of The Day: CAS Rachel Shebesh and athlete Asbel Kiprop share their mental health journeys