William Sing’oei, a former GSU deputy commandant, was found dead in his room on Wednesday. Also Read: Slain police officer Pauline Wakasa buried in Malava His body was discovered within the military facility in Embakasi, Nairobi. He was attached to the National Command Centre for COVID-19. It is still unclear under which circumstances the officer died. Nairobi county commissioner Flora Mworoa said investigations underway to ascertain what might have led to his sudden death. Also Read: The body was later moved to the mortuary pending a postmortem. In January this year, a cop was found dead with the throat slit at his house in Embakasi, Nairobi. In the wee hours of Wednesday morning, police were alerted that Cpl. Jonathan Korir Kipkemoi was groaning in pain. “SOBB, SCCIO AND STAPOL Embakasi immediately proceeded to the scene and established that today (Wednesday) at around 0400hours No. 225231 APC Kanyale heard distressing noise from the deceased’s unit. He immediately peeped through a hole on the unit door and saw the deceased groaning in pain in a pool of blood,” a police report reads in part. According to the report, the door was locked from the inside and had to be broken down. However, by the time the officer managed to break in, his colleague is said to have already succumbed to the injuries on his neck. Also Read: Kenei murder probe: DCI identifies 9 persons of interest In March last year, Deputy President William Ruto attended the burial of another police officer who was found dead at his home. The body of Sgt. Kipyegon Kenei, who worked as a security officer at the DP’s Harambee Annex office in Nairobi, was discovered with a gunshot wound to the head. A post mortem report revealed that the body had began to decompose by the time it was discovered meaning he had been dead between 1-2 days. What puzzled those who came to the scene first, and later the investigators, is the fact that there was no blood on the floor, raising questions if it was the actual scene of crime. The case is still under investigation. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |