Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura has lost his seat after a lengthy battle with the Jubilee party. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka declared the seat previously occupied by Mwaura vacant in a gazette notice issued on Monday. “It is notified for the information of the public that pursuant to Article103 (1) (e) (i) of the Constitution and section 37 of the Elections Act, the seat of the Member of the Senate elected under Article 98 (1) (d) of the Constitution and held by Hon. Isaac Mwaura Maigua became vacant, with effect from the 7th May, 2021,” the notice read. In late March, the High Court in Nairobi temporarily stopped Mr. Mwaura’s expulsion after he moved to court to challenge the ouster which was pegged on grounds of disciplinary violations. “That pending the hearing and determination of this application inter partes, the first respondent, 2nd respondent, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and the Speaker of the Senate be and hereby barred from implementing the decision of the 1st and 2nd respondent,” the ruling reads. The Jubilee party was named as the 1st respondent while the Registrar of Political Parties was named as the 2nd respondent. The case will be heard on April 15, 2021. On February 8 this year, Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju said the National Management Committee (NMC) had met and deliberated on a report filed by the party’s disciplinary committee. “The NMC in exercising its mandate provided or under article 7 (2a) of the party’s constitution and relying on other enabling provisions of the party law has expelled the following senators, ” the statement read. Those expelled include nominated Senators: Isaac Mwaura, Seneta Mary Yiane, Waqo Naomi Jilo, Omanga Millicent, Prengei Victor, Iman Dekow and Gona Christine Zawadi. The statement further noted that the expulsion was immediate but noted that the legislators still reserve their right to make an appeal. “The expulsions are with immediate effect and have been communicated to the Senate and the registrar of political parties,” Tuju said. In May last year, the senators were under fire after claims that they snubbed an invitation to a meeting at the State House without offering apologies. The meeting was attended by 20 senators including Kenya African National Union (Kanu) party leader Gideon Moi. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |