Detectives at King’eero police station in Kabete, Kiambu county are tonight pursuing a suspected gangster who escaped when police killed three of his accomplices hours after hijacking an ACK church pastor outside his home and robbing him off 40,000 shillings. Pastor John Chege shared his 8-hour ordeal in the hands of the robbers with the Citizen TV crew. We caught up with Pastor Chege of the ACK St. John’s Ndongoro Church at King’eero police station narrating to officers his ordeal in the hands of four wanted criminals in Kiambu county. Still shaken about the unfortunate event which lasted close to eight hours before he was rescued. “kufika kwangu kwa gate ndio nilikuta nimengojewa na wanaume lakini nilikutana na wawili wakapita sasa kabla nifungue gate gari iingie mara moja watu wawili wakaingia na binduki aina ya pistol,” the pastor aid. The gangsters ordered the pastor to sit between them as they traversed Kiambu county, all this while the pastor was allowed to call his congregants and ask for money. Also Read: “Wakaniambia sasa sisi tunatafuta pesa sasa wewe ni mchungaji pigia watu kuna watu wengi unajua so nilipigia watu wengi kwa sababu nilipewa target ya ksh.50,000 kabla saa tatu ifike so kazi yangu nikupigia wale najua nawambia wanitumie nitawarudishia kesho,” he continued. Still sandwiched between the robbers, it is in Ruaka where the made a stop and withdrew 40,000 shillings which had been sent to Pastor Chege’s phone before heading to Thika superhighway without raising any suspicion. “Naona ni kama Zimmerman hivi waliweka mafuta ya elfu mbili nikaambiwa wakigonga gari isimame wa hijack mimi nibaki kwa gari walikuwa na hao wamechoka,” he said. By this time police officers from King’eero had already been alerted by pastor Chege’s family and were trailing the vehicle. They intercepted the robbers around Kiamumbi area. “Naona ni subaru moja ilipita ikaenda pole pole, ingine ikapita kidogo kidogo magari ikazunguka, risasi ikapigwa juu, mimi nililala chini na deputy OCS akakuja kufungua mlango mwizi moja alitoka na mimi na nafikiria moja ndio alitoroka,” He added. Three suspects who tried to escape during the incident were shot dead one of the suspect’s escaped with gunshot wounds a pistol and several rounds of ammunition were recovered from the dead men. “They have been committing several robberies around the most recent was in Kikuyu where they kidnapped a man who was actually saved and we have been pursuing them,” Martin Wekesa the deputy, sub-county, commander Kabete said on Friday. Police have now launched a manhunt for the suspect, even as pastor Chege reunited with his family after a traumatising evening. Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |