KCB head coach Zedekiah ‘Zico’ Otieno has welcomed Football Kenya Federation’s move to pick CAF Champions League representatives come June 30, before the end of the league, in line with the confederation’s deadline. FKF on Monday announced the team that will be topping the table by June 30, will grab the ticket for the continental elite interclub competition, the final day for the window provided to enter teams by various federations. And ‘Zico’ says the decision by FKF is fair, noting that KCB are firmly in contention for the ticket. ‘’We are not disadvantaged in any way as KCB. All teams are faced with the same situation and we will only need to plan well and see what we can achieve by that time. The notice is sufficient hence no cause for alarm,’’ said Zico. KCB started the league well, but with many disruptions occasioned by the Covid 19 pandemic, the team has slowly dipped to position three from the mantle of the log where they were unchallenged for some time, at the beginning of the season. ‘Zico’ thinks the contest for the top spot is open and any team(in the top 10) can top the table on June 30, noting that coaches will have to rotate squads to avoid injuries. Also Read: ‘’For players to be effective, they’ll need to be rested for at least a match…this will also depend on whether the remaining players are in a position to perform since we are faced with a home stretch situation. We can’t afford to do guesswork at this point,” he explained. KCB currently sits third on the log after Saturday’s barren draw, against leaders Tusker FC, at Ruaraka grounds. AFC Leopards dislodged them from the second spot after a solitary goal win against Nzoia FC over the weekend, with Kariobangi Sharks leaping to the third after beating Kakamega Homeboyz by a similar scoreline. Robert Matano boys, Tusker FC, are still in command with 37 points from 17 matches, two more than second-placed AFC Leopards. Meanwhile, Gor Mahia captain Haun Shakava believes the league is wide open. According to Shakava, there is no cause for alarm since all the teams will be entitled to the same number of matches as of June 30. ‘’We are in high spirits; as players, and we are passionate about football. Our love for this game is an indication that we can climb to the top by June 30,’’ said Shakava. The towering defender however said this can happen easily with motivation from the management, noting that they are not the only club in the league facing financial difficulties ‘’I know it can be possible, but spiced with motivation, Gor can easily get back to the continental scene next season by finishing top.’ Video Of The Day: Different journeys, same destiny: The story of top two candidates | KCSE 2020 |