Education Cabinet Secretary Prof. George Magoha has announced the conclusion of marking of the 2020 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination. “The marking exercise for the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination that started three weeks ago has officially ended today.
I take this opportunity to thank all the dedicated examiners and a committed team of Ministry of Education and Teachers Service Commission officials who worked tirelessly to ensure this exercise, which took place in 35 centres countrywide, was executed well,” said Magoha. The CS was speaking on Friday while monitoring the end of the KCSE marking exercise at Starehe boys Center. Prof. Magoha said the the ministry will immediately embark on plans to have learners sit the 2021 national examinations before the end of this year. He said his ministry is working round the clock, to recover the time lost to the Coronavirus pandemic, urging players in the ministry to brace for a Marathon. At the same time, CS Magoha outlined the term three school opening calendar. All Learners are expected to resume studies on Monday next week except those in grade 4, who shall remain home until the 26th of July. Also Read: “I wish to emphasize that Grade Four learners will remain at home until July 26th, 2021 when schools will open for the First Term of the 2021 Academic Calendar. This is necessary because the Grade Four learners were part of the first batch of learners who reopened in the first case of
the phased resumption of learning after the COVID-19 closure in October 2020,” he said. Prof. Magoha warned that stern action would be taken against any school that violates the stipulated calendar by recalling Grade 4 learners before July 26. “We have received reports that some private schools are planning to recall Grade Four learners together with other groups that are expected to open on Monday. Such schools must stop this plan and allow all public and private learning institutions to adhere to the stipulated calendar. Stern action will be taken against schools that reopen for Grade Four candidates. The Grade Four learners must be allowed to study at home until they join Grade 5 on July 26, 2021,” said the CS. Meanwhile, the Education CS says the Government has released Ksh.7.5 billion to secondary schools ahead of the schools reopening. He added that the Ministry of Education has also made a request to the National Treasury for the release of a further Ksh.13 billion for the secondary schools and Ksh.2.8 billion for primary schools. Video Of The Day: Guns galore