Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga has promised miraa farmers in Meru that he will secure markets for their products in various countries if elected president in 2022. Odinga spoke in Mau town, Meru County, on Monday on the first day of his three-day tour to woo voters of the East counties of Mt. Kenya region. The former premier said among the countries he will be looking forward to securing markets for the miraa include the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Somalia. The ODM chief vowed to resolve the border issues between Kenya and Somalia to ensure safe passage of miraa into the easternmost country of Africa. He further pledged to seek the indulgence of foreign nations about the possibility of exporting the miraa and having it sold there. “Mimi najua wakulima wa miraa wamepata shida mingi kwa kukosa soko…ile soko yetu ya Somalia inadidimia, mara wamefunga mara wamefungua…Ntahakikisha ya kwamba Somalia inafungua mipaka yake na miraa inaenda huko,” he said. Also Read: “Kuna sehemu ya Somalia ambayo imekuwa huru, inaitwa Somaliland, tayari wamekubali kuchukua miraa kwetu, lakini Somalia imezuia ndege yetu kupita na kupeleka miraa huko. Tutatatua shida hilo, ndege yetu itoke hapa ifike kule Somaliland.” He added: “Mimi ni rafiki sana ya rais wa DRC Tshisekedi, nitaongea nay eye akubali miraa ytu iingie kwa soko ya DRC…na vilevile majirani wetu hapa chini. Vilevile tutaendelea kuzungumza na serikali ya ulaya maanake hakuna thibitisho eti miraa inaathiri maisha ya watu.” Odinga defended his proposed social protection fund that he said is aimed at giving every vulnerable household a monthly stipend of Ksh.6,000. He hit out at political opponents that have opposed the proposal saying it is very much doable and will cost the government about Ksh.150 billion. The ex-Prime Minister said Kenya loses approximately Ksh.600 million every year, adding that he will block all loopholes of corruption and redirect this money towards the social protection fund. “Tutapigana na ufisadi…ufisadi ndio adui mkubwa ya Wakenya…saa ile mtu anaingia pale yeye ni mwembamba kama sindano, baada ya mwaka mmoja (amenona),” said Raila. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam