Fireworks are expected at the Koitalel University College grounds in Nandi County this weekend where over eighty volleyball teams, drawn from all corners of the country, will battle for the honours at the inaugural Heroes Community Volleyball tournament. The organisers have divided the participating teams of the two-day tourney into five categories; secondary and primary schools, senior teams, self-sponsored teams, university and colleges. Reigning East Africa champions Kwanthanze Secondary School, former national champions Cheptil and Western region giants Lugulu Girls are headlining the secondary school category. Others are Lelmokwo, Mwitoti, Bishop Sulumeti, St. Joseph’s Kitale, Nyakach, Mudavadi Girls Schools, Nyakach and St. Joseph’s Kitale. Defending Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) national men’s league champions GSU, Equity, former women’s champions Kenya Pipeline, Western Prisons and Rift Valley Prisons are among elite clubs that will take part in the two-day event. The tournament will also include institutional clubs including Kakamega County, Uasin Gishu, Kenyatta and Strathmore Universities among others. Also Read: The tournament’s patron Paul Bitok termed the championship as a marvelous platform to churn out new talent urging scouting officers to grab the opportunity. “The school games were halted due to Covid-19 and many clubs including also the national teams are deprived of new talents. I urge the scouters to come and pick new talents. The school teams have massively registered and clearly that shows how they are yearning to showcase their talents. “We’re still registering more teams and we expect more than 100 teams to register with us by close of business (tomorrow) Friday. The teams have already started streaming in and we’ve already started marking the courts so, everything is set and we say let the ball keep flying!” said Bitok, who is also the national women’s volleyball team head coach. With five trophies up for grabs and great prizes to be won, the teams will be hard at work sweating it out. “We expect tough competition and we assure everyone that the championship will played strictly in accordance with the Ministry of Health protocols,” he added. The winners of the senior men and women teams will be awarded Sh.50,000 each while the self-sponsored teams winners will walk away with Sh.40,000 with Colleges and Secondary schools benefiting with balls and nets. The event is organised in recognition of past heroes in the region for their splendid achievements in the sport between 1980 and 1990.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam