Vihiga Queens has raised an early red flag calling for financial support from the government and potential sponsors, as they need Sh.10 million for the AF Women’s Champions League slated for November 5 -19 in Cairo, Egypt. Club’s Chief Executive Officer Mike Senelwa explained the mammoth budget for their preparations of the inaugural championship and as such, underlining their urgent need to bolster their account. “We need a budget of about Sh.10million to cater for logistics in the team including purchasing travelling tickets, training expenses, paying players allowances as the technical team as well. Of course, we understand that upon landing in Cairo, we will be in the hands of CAF, who will cater for every expense including hotels, meals, local travelling,” Senelwa told Citizen Digital. The official revealed that the tokens which they have been receiving from the political class is not enough for running the club’s business, and getting a long-term sponsorships is their dream in order to escape the financial abyss. “The tokens we have been receiving from different people including ODM leader Raila Odinga (Sh.500, 000)  governor Wilber Otichilo (Sh. 1m) and ANC Leader Musalia Mudavadi is not sponsorship but appreciation after clinching the CECAFA title and so there is a need for us to get sponsors. “We’ve come up with different packages of our kits sponsorship which can accommodate as many sponsors as possible. So, they should come on board and support us and by doing so they will not only advertise their products with us locally but also internationally because I am sure in Cairo the CAF matches will be aired live globally,” he added. Also Read: Vihiga Queens qualified for the continental extravaganza after beating Commercial Bank of Ethiopia 2-1 in Nairobi on September 9 in the final of Cecafa Women Club Championships to book the single ticket reserved for the region. They will open their campaign against Mamelodi of South Africa on November 6 at the Cairo Military Academy Stadium, a day after the opening match pitting Wadi Degla and AS Mande at the Cairo 30 Stadium. The Boniface NyamuNyamuh coached side were drawn in pool “B” alongside River Angels of Nigeria, Asfar FC of Morocco and Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa while Pool A have hosts Wadi Degla, Mali’s AS Mande, Equatorial Guinea’s Malabo Kings and Hasaacas Ladies from Ghana. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam