Bandari FC on Friday edged hosts Bidco United 2-3 at the Thika Stadium, to stay top of the Kenyan Premier League (FKF-PL) with three matches marking the return of the topflight action after a two-week break. Felly Mulumba, William Wadri and Johana Mwita were on target for the Dockers, while Jacob Onyango and Davis Orem scored for the Anthony Akhulia coached side. In the second match at the same venue, Posta Rangers ran riot over newbies Vihiga Bullets 4-0, in a one sided affair that saw the Stanley Okumbi’s mailmen miss glorious chances to score more. Eliud Lokuwam grabbed a brace with Chrispinus Onyango and Caleb Olilo striking one each, to seal Rangers’ first win of the season. Elsewhere in Sudi, Bungoma, Sofapaka FC forced hosts Nzoia Sugar to a barren draw, the hosts failing to capitalise on home advantage. In the early kickoff at Thika, Bandari took an early lead through Mulumba, who tapped in from a corner on the 11th minute. Also Read: Endless efforts from the hosts to equalise bore fruits on the 21st minute, after Onyango converted his Peter Nzuki’s free kick, to make it 1-1. Ugandan Wadri restored the visitors’ lead in the 43rd minute, with a clear assist from Siraj Mohammed only needing to tap-in Substitute Mwita in only his third touch after introduction, scored the third goal for the Dockers in the 71st, but 14 minutes later Orem reduced the deficit with a cool finish as Bidco fought hard to get at least a point.  Edwin Omwabani denied Whyvone Isuza a chance to steal the show, clearing his well executed bicycle kick before former Tusker FC man Aloro Rodgers’ freekick missed narrowly. Bandari coach Andre Casa Mbungo lauded his charges for bagging the three points, but noted they have not hit the level he wants. “The match was tough but the boys did their best to get all the three points. At least now we have six points from our first two matches, which is a good record for a start. “We however have to work more because you saw we lost our tempo at some point subjecting ourselves to much pressure towards the end,” the soft-spoken Rwandese said. His opposite number Akhulia, accepted the defeat and thumped up the visitors for their efforts.  “They deserved the win. It was a tough match though my boys also tried their best. We however must start to learn from our mistakes as two of the goals we conceded were from set pieces. You cannot afford to concede from similar mistakes at the top level,” Akhulia noted. Over the moon  Okumbi was over the moon after the second match at Thika, congratulating his boys for splendid performance. “I’m happy we have registered our first victory. The boys played well and Bullets are like any other team in the Premier League. That’s why they rose to the top level,” said Okumbi. Bullets coach Evans Mafuta who recently signed seven players, said he learnt a lesson and promised to seal the loopholes. “We have lost but we have also seen the gaps costing us. We will rectify before we play the next match and ensure we put a better performance,” he noted. In attendance, was the Vihiga County Governor Dr. Wilber Otichillo who agonizingly watched as Bullets bounced against the mailmen. Hit the crossbar At Sudi, Nzoia’s Kevin Juma was a constant threat to Sofapakas with his trickery on the ball and crosses, but the Ken Odhiambo men were well drilled to prevent any damage. Beja Hassan wasted a crucial opportunity to give Nzoia the lead in the 30th minute blasting his shot wide with only Sofapaka keeper Kevin Omondi to beat. In the second half, Nzoia pulled out James Kibande, introducing Collins Wakhungu in the 62nd minute. The winger changed the game coming close 10 minutes after his entry, but his shot hit the crossbar. Both teams continued to threaten but could not find the back of the net, wasting chance after chance to settle for a barren stalemate. Additional reporting by Joseph Saasia.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam