Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president Nick Mwendwa has failed in his bid to block his possible arrest and prosecution, on grounds of corruption and mismanagement of the monies at the federation. Mwendwa had sued the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI), Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), and journalist Milton Nyakundi last year after a complaint was filed with the Banking Fraud Investigations Unit (BFIU) touching on the finances of the federation. In his second four-year term in office, the FKF boss through lawyer Tom Ojienda told the court that Nyakundi is not a member of FKF and thus lacks the locus standi to complain about matters related to thw federation. Mwendwa further argued that possible summons by the DCI amounted to violation of his rights, but Justice James Makau in his ruling on Thursday dismissed the petition, indicating it not only lacked merit but was also premature and speculative. “I, therefore, find the petitioners’ prayer for an order of a permanent injunction prohibiting the DCI and DPP  summoning, investigating, charging, or prosecuting the petitioners with respect to the financial management of FKF is not justified in the circumstances of this case,” ruled Justice Makau. Nyakundi wants the BFIU to investigate what he claims are questionable transactions within FKF accounts. Also Read: “The petitioners claim that the FKF Constitution and Fifa Statutes provide for a comprehensive mechanism of financial audit of all monies received by the FKF. However, I am not convinced that the existence of an audit mechanism negates the investigative jurisdiction of the DCI and DPP and specifically where a complaint of a financial crime has been made.” Nyakundi wants the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to probe if Mwendwa transferred monies from FKF accounts to his personal accounts. There lingers questions about an Outside Broadcast (OB) machine which Mwendwa’s regime spent over Sh 100 million in a failed procurement process, among other queries Nyakundi points out. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam