The British High Commission announced on Thursday that vaccinated Kenyans traveling to the UK will no longer be required to quarantine themselves or take a COVID-19 test before departure. Kenya’s High Commissioner to the UK Manoah Esipisu said the latest move is expected to boost tourism and business travel. “Great news. From Monday people fully vaccinated in Kenya can travel to the UK without having to quarantine. Boost to tourism and business travel,” Manoah Esipisu Tweeted. The latest comes as a reprieve for over 47 countries that had been placed on the UK red-list, which required visitors arriving from those countries to quarantine in a government-approved hotel for 11 nights at a cost of Ksh.344,171. “We are pleased to announce that from Monday, those fully vaccinated in Flag of Kenya can travel to Flag of United Kingdom without having to quarantine, or take a COVID test before departure,” the British High Commission said. “Thanks to strong partnership with @MOH_Kenya we have completed the process to recognise vaccine certificates,” UK’s Transport Secretary Grant Shapps also added 37 countries to the list of locations with COVID-19 vaccine programs that have been approved. The destinations include India, Turkey, Hong Kong, South Africa, Brazil, Pakistan, Kenya and Ghana. Later this month, fully vaccinated travelers from approved countries will be able to take a lateral flow test instead of a costly PCR test on day two of their arrival, and they will be able to send a picture of their test to verify the result. If they test positive, they will be given a free PCR test to confirm their results. Passengers who have been completely vaccinated in countries that are not on the approved list must still do a pre-departure test, a day two and eight test, and complete 10 days of self-isolation, with the option of test to release on day five. In mid-September, Kenya was among seven other countries that were struck off the UK’s red list after six months. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam