Siaya Senator James Orengo has come out to dismiss reports that he is among candidates preferred by the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party for various elective positions in the county come the 2022 General Elections. Senator Orengo, in a public statement released on Tuesday, termed the alleged list as published by a local daily as false and malicious. According to the Senate Minority Leader, the ODM party is yet to conduct nominations for any positions in Siaya County or anywhere else, for that matter. “My attention has been drawn to a story in today’s Daily Nation and other print media alleging that the ODM party has established a list of preferred candidates or has a line up for various elective seats in next year general elections in Siaya County,” he stated. “As far as I am aware ODM has not conducted any nominations and there are no preferred candidates in Siaya County or elsewhere. Over the years even the most senior ODM party officials have had to go through the party nomination processes and I believe this will not change.” Orengo said the reports were only meant to interfere with the ongoing voter registration exercise, further adding that he is yet to formally declare interest for any seat in the upcoming polls. Also Read: “Politics that is non-competitive is undemocratic and autocratic and belongs to the tragic past. The story is false and malicious and meant to interfere with the ongoing voter registration exercise,” he said. “On my part I have not declared the seat I will contest for in next years’ general elections. I also want to confirm that I’m not in any contrived line-up of candidates and condemn any such moves to stifle democracy within the party.” Orengo’s statement comes on the back of communication from Ugunja Member of Parliament Opiyo Wandayi that he shall not be seeking the Siaya governor’s seat in 2022. Wandayi, who is also the National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chair, said he arrived at the decision following consultation with the ODM leadership. Despite noting that he has all the necessary qualifications to vie for the seat himself, he will instead back the candidate that will be nominated by the party. “Following extensive consultations with the 0DM leadership and the rank and file of the party and, having listened keenly to the voices of my Ugunja constituents, I wish to make it known that I shall not be a candidate for the position of Governor of Siaya County in 2022,” said Wandayi. “As a disciplined and loyal member of the progressive movement, I will lend my full support to the candidates that 0DM shall have duly nominated for the position of Governor and other positions in that election.” The MP added: “In the meantime, I will dedicate my time and energy to the task of ensuring that H.E. Raila Odinga becomes the 5th President of the Republic of Kenya even as I continue to serve the people of Ugunja.” Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam