Machakos will host the first Athletics Kenya Cross Country Series this Saturday at the Machakos People’s Park for the opener of the AK’s 2021-2022 calendar that also includes the inaugural 2022 World Cross Country Tour. The second cross country series will then head to Iten in Elgeyo Marakwet a week later before moving to Ol Kalau in Nyandarua on November 6. The fourth and fifth cross country series will be held on November 20 in Kapsokwony High School in Mt. Elgon and December 4 in Sotik, Bomet County. Kapseret will then play host to National Cross Country Championships cum trials on January 22, 2022 where a team will be picked for the World Cross Country Tour to be held on February 12 in Eldoret. The National Cross Country event will be preceded by County and Regional Cross Country Championships to be held in December 18 and January 8 respectively. AK senior vice-president Paul Mutwii urged Kenyan athletes to brace for a busy calendar that also includes the Africa Championships, World Championships and Commonwealth Games. Also Read: “It will be a busy year because unlike last season all the championships are likely to be staged coronavirus situation notwithstanding. Only World Cross Country has been cancelled and if things remain as they are then our athletes should be ready for a quite busy season. “We thank our athletes for doing a great job last season and we’re looking forward for better results this season,” he told Citizen Digital. The completion of the cross country in February will set the stage for the Track and Field weekend meets with Nairobi hosting the first meeting on February 5 before heading to Kenyatta Stadium in Kisumu on February 22. The third and fourth meetings will be held in Embu and Kakamega on March 5 and 19 respectively. After the Track and Field meets, all counties will then hold their respective championships on April 2 before the Regional Championships take place on April 16. Kasarani will then host the National Championships from April 28-30 which will double as the Africa Championships qualifiers. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam