The family of the late olympian Agnes Tirop now wants the wealth that was accumulated by their daughter returned to the family. Recounting their daughter’s troubled marital life, the family alleges that the late Tirop had complained several times regarding the harassment she endured from her husband, whose name is attached to every estate she owned. The empty cow sheds here at Kapnyamisa village in Mosoriot, Nandi county, serve as a reminder to the parents of the late Agnes Tirop of an unfinished project that their daughter had begun as a means to support them. “Alikuwa mtoto ya heshima na mpole, alipenda kuja nyumbani sanasana, alipanga kununua ngombe alijenga dairy hapo, alinunua ploti, alisema akimaliza hii ataenda sasa kwa ploti, sasa yote,” Tina Tirop, the mother to the deceased told Citizen TV on Thursday. Her brother Josephat Keter remembers that his sister was paying the school fees for a handful of kids in the region. But beneath the blessing that Tirop’s life offered to the immediate and extended family, personal issues between the late Tirop and a man said to be her husband is what her siblings believe is the cause of her death. Also Read: Her brother Macdonald Kiprotich believes that his sister’s  life was taken over money. “It is so painful you are taking our sisters life just for money, huyo jamaa aliuwa na ubinafsi tunasema hivyo ju hiyo yake ni ubinafsi…he had everything, hakuna kitu manu hakuwa nayo, ata vitu eneye sisi familia hatukuwa tunapata,” Kiprotich says. Tirop’s mother says she knew the man, but to the best of her knowledge they were never married. “Ile siku walienda Tokyo, alirudi akapata jamaa anafanya maneno yake na warembo wengine, hapo sasa ndo ilileta shida wakaachana Agnes akarudi nyumbani na akasema hawapatani vizuri na Manu,” her brother Kiprotich told Citizen TV According to her brothers, the man known as Emmanuel or Manu, convinced their sister to return to their home on Monday October 16 The events leading up to her death appear suspicious to Tirops’ family.. “Manu aliambia dada yake aende anunue nyama mapema, na asubuhi si masaa ya kula nyama, so Chepngetich akasema anaenda shule na Manu akachukua opportunity akamtuma…” Kiprotich adds. Tirops’ phone would later go off, until her body was discovered on wednesday morning. “Huyo jamaa ambaye ameshikwa haituhusu sisi, ju the right person is Emmanuel, na tunataka arudishe magari na mali yote ya agnes kwa wazazi, ju si vizuri mtu kujibidiisha hivyo alafu baadaye unakuja unanyemelea…si vizuri,” the family adds. At the moment, detectives are still trying to piecce up together the evidence to ascertain who exactly was involved in the murder of Agnes tirop, and what was their motive. In the meantime, all athletics events in the country have been suspended for two weeks in honour of the fallen athlete  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam