Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) Women Premier League defending champions Equity Hawks’ fine form this season will face an acid test when they take on second-placed Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) at Makande gymnasium in Mombasa on Sunday. Hawks have collected all 22 points on offer from their 11 outings this season, and overall head coach David Maina is convinced his players’ commitment will be key to a successful outing in Mombasa. Speaking to Citizen Digital on phone, Maina expressed delight at how his charges have maintained their impetus this season, despite numerous hurdles capped by sudden stoppages necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. “The season has been good to us because we have managed to maintain our unblemished record and as we head to Mombasa we are confident that we will come back with two points. “Our ladies team is the best in the division and am positive we will keep the fire burning even as we approach post season.” With a potential match-up against fierce rivals KPA in the postseason still a probability, Maina is confident their impervious from the regular season will help their quest to defend their crown. Also Read: “Given the nature of competition that we have witnessed so far this term, we understand that we will face KPA in the finals. All we can do is prepare well and hope that we can maintain our composure in the finals. KPA are ranked second on the KBF log and a win will see the Anthony Ojukwu-coached side go top. Their male counterparts Equity Bank will also battle KPA on Sunday afternoon as they aim to climb higher on the log.  Epic weekend It will be an epic weekend in men’s basketball league when Eldoret-based Eldonets will be hosting defending champions Ulinzi Warriors. The hosts who are last year semi-finalists will be trying to Warriors unbeaten record. Eldonets head Coach Maurice Ouma says with a good strategy, Ulinzi are beatable. “It’s a tough match but we are also tough. We are expecting a positive result because we have been preparing well. They (Ulinzi) have good defenders, huge in size and us as you know physique matters a lot in basketball, but we have prepared well to match their strength,” Ouma added. On his side, Ulinzi head coach William Balozi says getting an away win will be a statement in their quest to retain the title. “Playing away it is important for me to get the points. They (Eldonets) are always good when at home so I have to push harder, since playing outdoor is not our thing as we are used to playing indoor,” Balozi said. He added: “They have strong guards, I’m working on my big men to get it right in dropping balls in their box so that we get the scores quickly.” Ulinzi have so far played 15 games, winning 14 and losing one and are leading the log with 29 points. Eldonets are at 11th with 11 points having played eight games, winning three and losing five.  Weekend Fixtures Saturday (Mombasa) KPA vs ANU 2:00 pm KPA vs Kisumu Lakeside 4:00 pm Eldoret Eldonets vs Ulinzi 10:00 am Nyayo UON Dynamites v Storms 10:00 am KU Oryx vs Eagle Wings 1:00 pm KU Pirates vs Umoja 2:30 pm City Thunder vs Blades 4:00pm Sunday (Mombasa) KPA vs Equity Hawks 12:00 pm KPA vs Equity Bank 2:00 pm Nyayo Storms vs Zetech 11:30 am KU Oryx vs UON Dynamites 1:00 pm KU Pirates vs City Thunder 2:30 pm UON Terror vs KCA 4:00 pm Report by Dan Ogega & Dennis Sabwa Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam