ODM leader Raila Odinga has outlined a social welfare programme that he says would bridge the poverty gap in the country. Raila says, if elected, his government would dole out to poor households, at least ksh. 6,000 every month. The ODM leader who spoke after a tour of Nairobi, says the programme would reach at least 8 million people in just one year. ODM leader Raila Odinga and his brigade made a grand entry into the saba saba historic grounds in Kamukunji on Wednesday for a rally that sought to expound on his social welfare programme that he says will at least put food on the table for the poorest families in the country. “Kwa kila familia…tutahakikisha kuwa wamepata elfu sita katika mpango yetu ya social welfare programme,” Raila said on Wednesday. Odinga says the plan is achievable, comparing it with a similar promise of free primary education he made with retired President Mwai Kibaki in 2002. “Wale wanasema haiwezekani tunawaambia mtulie muoine………hata 2002 tulisema tutawaopa freepri education ilifanyika haikufanyika,” he added. Odinga’s tour of Nairobi saw him hold rallies at Burma market, Kamukunji, Shauri Moyo, Gikomba and Kariokor. His clarion call to all unregistered Kenyans in the city to visit IEBC centres so that they can be part of history in 2022 …. “Ili tufaulu lazima kila mtu yetu achukuwe kura nataka jeshi yote ya agwambo ikuwa na bunduki na risasi..bunduki ni kitambulisho risasi ni kura,” the ODM leader added. Jubilee MPs joined their odm counterparts in the voter drive, affirming their merger ahead of 2022. “Ukituona hapa na baba ujue jubilee tuko nyuma ya baba hii 2022,” Maina Kamanda said.. Odinga’s day ended with a meeting of economic experts who unpacked the social welfare programme. According to Odinga’s plan, every household will be receiving 6,000 shillings monthly with the fund targeting 2 million poorest households in the country. He further says, if elected, his government will set aside 100 billion shillings for the programme. all ministries will have to take a compulsory 25 percent budget cuts and the fund channelled to the ambitious social welfare programme. To sustain the programme, Odinga says key on his agenda if elected, will be massive creation of jobs in the first year in office, cut on govt spending, restructuring of govt to reduce unnecessary expenditure and sealing of corruption loopholes.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam