Former Kenya international Tobias “Jua Kali” Ochola has rallied Tusker to make the most of their home advantage to beat Zamalek in their CAF Champions League clash on Saturday. According to Ochola, the only way for the Brewers to keep their hope of eliminating the Egyptian champions is by finishing the job at home, as he expects a more ruthless side away to Cairo. Jua Kali as he was fondly known by fans in his prime, has also cautioned the Brewers to beware of “mind games the North Africans like employing” against foreign opponents. “Zamalek are a strong side and given the fact that they are the reigning Egyptian champions makes things even harder. However, Tusker should go all out for victory at home if they are to knock them out.” The Kenyan representative will seek inspiration from bitter rivals Gor Mahia who trounced the Egyptian giants 4-2 in a CAF Confederations Cup group stage match in 2019. “Nothing has changed about the team in terms of quality, they are the old Zamalek we knew. I will be lying to say Tusker will find it easy in away to North Africa, and so the home match on Saturday will give us the picture of what to expect,” said Jua Kali. Also Read: Tusker head coach Robert Matano has previously indicated that his charges must replicate their impervious form from previous stages if they are to floor the north African giants and secure a group stage berth. The Kenyan champions made the cut for this stage following their 4-1 aggregate demolition of Djiboutian side Arta Solar 7 after a 1-1 draw away in Djibouti on September 11 before thrashing 3-0 in the return leg at the Nyayo National Stadium on September 18. Matano will hope that the timely return to full training of left back Charles Momanyi and marksman Joshua Ibrahim will offer his team an important boost ahead of the match. The duo was conspicuously absent from their opening day 1-0 defeat to cash-trapped AFC Leopards a fortnight ago. The match kicks off at 4:00pm at the Nyayo National Stadium with a return leg clash set for Cairo on October 22. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam