With sports teams across the country struggling financially owing to their failure to secure corporate sponsorships, Mombasa-based National Super League (NSL) side Coast Stima have been renamed Coastal Heroes in a bid to enhance their chances of securing patronage. Team manager Ken Onukha revealed to Citizen Digital that the outfit’s vacated brand had hindered them from getting a new sponsor since being dumped by Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC) in July last year, with the power supplier citing harsh economic conditions. The withdrawal also affected former FKF-Premier League sides Western Stima who have since been renamed Kisumu United following their relegation from the top tier, and former NSL side Nairobi Stima who were axed from the second-tier league after finishing 18th last season. “We struggled to get sponsors as we were associated with Kenya Power who terminated their association with us since the onset of the COVID-19 global pandemic. “We have changed to a name that can be associated with the community which will make it easier for us to get the much-needed sponsor.” Ken also revealed that the club has secured a short-term partnership with a Mombasa-based businessman who will help them sustain their operations as they continue with their search for a long-term sponsor. Also Read: “At the moment we are lucky because one businessman has agreed to partner with us and he will be critical to our operations before a sponsor comes on board. “We are moving with speed to secure sponsorship before the season kicks off because other sides like Murang’a SEAL and Kibera Black Stars have all signed sponsorship deals. Lack of funds saw the team’s bright start dwindle culminating their season at position 17, a point above the drop zone. Heroes will get their 2021/22 campaign underway at Camp Toyoyo against fellow promotion hopefuls Kibera Black Stars on November 6. At the same time, other coast region representatives Modern Coast Rangers will now be referred to as Mombasa Elite following a successful application to the Sports Registrar to have their name changed as they angle for potential patronage. Another NSL side, Mt. Kenya United adopted a similar strategy by changing their name to Dandora Love FC in the middle of last season and will hope for a revitalized season after finishing ninth last season. This is the second time the outfit has changed its moniker after switching from Nakumatt to Mt. Kenya United in November 2018 after a buyout by Jubilee party politicians led by Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria and former Embakasi East aspirant Francis Mureithi. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam