The family of slain businessman Tob Cohen wants the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji removed from office over alleged mishandling of suspects in the case on the murder of the dutch tycoon. In a court application dated September 29th, businessman Tob Cohen’s sister Gabrielle Van Straten, through lawyer Danstan Omari, accuses the DPP of impeding justice by failing to charge Court of Appeal judge Sankale ole Kantai for the murder of Cohen. Van Straten states: “That it is increasingly becoming clearer to me and the entire world that the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions has some sacred cows and thus the resistance to prosecute the petitioner herein who is not only linked to the murder of my brother but is also painted by the available evidence to have had ex-marital affairs with my sister-in-law (Sarah Wairimu Kamotho) during the lifetime of my late brother.” “The forensic analysis done by the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti’s people is the same basis that the DPP has put to charge Sarah Wairimu and Karanja. Why is it that the judge cannot be charged?” questions Lawyer Danstan Omari. The petition goes on to question the move by the DPP to change the prosecutors handling the case. “The director of public prosecutions has thus far mishandled the prosecutions of the murderers of my late brother by either changing the prosecution counsel that were initially prosecuting the murders of my late brother consequently causing the delay in the conclusion of the matter currently before the criminal division,” says Vanstraten. Tob Cohen’s family also claims to have been locked out of the correspondence between DCI and DPP in the lead-up  to the clearing of justice Kantai’s name. In the letters seen by Citizen TV, on the 9th of June 2021, the DPP writes to a lawfirm; Ibrahim Issak and Company seeking patience on an inquiry they made about the fate of justice Kantai. On the same day, he writes to the DCI through the Inspector General of Police directing the closure of the probe without further police action. “Is it by accident that the DPP writes two letters one informing Ole Sankale that investigations are going on within a few minutes he writes to the DCI that that file has been closed? posed Danstan Omari. Van Straten’s application also questioned orders by justice Anthony Mrima issued Monday against the arrest and prosecution of Kantai without the written permission of the DPP. “We strongly believe as a family that the DPP is deeply involved in covering up the investigations that will lead to the arrest of justice Kantai to be charged,” added Omari. Contacted for a response, DPP Noordin Haji said that his reply will follow the court process. The application before the High Court has been filed and served pending action. Tob Cohen, a businessman of dutch origin was reported missing in July 2019, and his wife Sarah Wairimu was arrested and detained when detectives linked her to his death. She was eventually charged alongside businessman Peter Karanja. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam