Kieni MP Kanini Kega drummed up support for ODM leader Raila Odinga while appearing for a JKlive interview on Wednesday, appearing to give firsthand insight into the political clockwork that makes the Mt.Kenya region tick, and why it is Mr. Odinga’s time. According to the outspoken MP and ardent supporter of President Uhuru Kenyatta, the region has previously denied the ODM leader the opportunity in favor of their own. “I have now listened to him and he has the country at heart and I believe he would make a good president,” MP Kanini Kega said on Wednesday. “He has always wanted to give us a message but we as Kikuyus said, since he is vying against one of our own, we do not want to listen, but of late now I’ve been able to engage him and he is very resourceful,” The legislator also went down history, noting that in 2002, central Kenya referred to the ODM chief as “Njamba” the title for a hero, after he teamed up with Mwai Kibaki, famously declaring ‘Kibaki tosha’. “Unfortunately, it did not end well, because maybe, some of the things that they agreed on had not been met,” the MP added. He went on to quote more from the history books, explaining that when Kenya was about to gain its independence, the late Jaramogi Odinga demanded the release of Mzee Jomo Kenyatta who was in incarceration at the time. Kanini Kega said that during the 2018 uncertainty over the contested poll results, characterised by demonstrations across the city, the ODM leader shook hands with his competitor for the sake of peace. “So when I look back at the actions, his actions and the actions of his father, I said, wait a minute… let’s listen to him, maybe he still has a message from his father on why they did what they did at that time when they were also looking for the presidency,” the MP said. The MP said, that having listened to the ODM leader, he believes that he is best suited to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s tenure than ends in 2022. “I have listened to him, he has a good plan and he has the country at heart, from where I sit, I believe he would make a good president,” he added. The ODM leader who now enjoys camaraderie with the president is yet to announce his presidential bid, but has been on cross-country tours in which he has endeared himself to the electorate with “Azimio La Umoja”, an invitation to National Unity. Among those looking to succeed Uhuru is his deputy William Ruto, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi, KANU’s Gideon Moi and Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam