The Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) has flagged 14 fuel and eight LPG dealers over malpractices. The 22 indicted sites are spread out across the country including Nairobi, Nakuru, Homabay, Bungoma, Marsabit, Busia and Kakamega. The dealers have been flagged for various offences including selling fuel destined for the export market locally, offering adulterated fuel for sale and the possession of fuel meant for export without authorization. The eight liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) facilities were meanwhile all found to be refilling and trading with LPG cylinders belonging to other licensees without consent. EPRA has taken various remedial action on the dealers including the closing down of entire stations, closing offending pumps, impounding transport trucks and arresting owners of non-compliant stations. The energy sector regulator carried out 5328 tests at 1151 petroleum sites between July and September. Also Read: 98.8 per cent of the sites were found to be compliant with operational requirements.  List of non-compliant fuel stations 1. Nyang’inja Filling Station, in Kendu Bay, Homabay 2. Jasho Filling Station in Imbo, Homa Bay 3. Bahari Filling Station in Wundanyi, Taita Taveta 4. Saiga Filling Station in Kemera, Nyamira 5. Truck KBA 561P I ZD 9695 Owner – Waves Petroleum limited at the Busia Busia One Stop Border 6. Truck KBU 016N 1 W 7976 Owner – Joseph Karoba at the Busia One Stop Border 7. Illegal Site, along Rangwe Road, Nairobi 8. Habiba Adan Fuel Samples at Moyale Police Station in Marsabit 9. Mariam Ibrahim Adan Fuel Samples at Moyale Police Station in Marsabit 10. Fatuma Hassan Adan Fuel Sample at Moyale Police Station 11. Ola Energy Kakamega A Service Station in Kakamega 12 Saxiib Filling Station in Maragua, Murang’a 13. Geoffrey Omenda Filling Station at Kimwanga Kanu in Bungoma 14. Street Travellers SACCO Filling Station at Kanu Street in Nakuru  List of facilities found undertaking LPG malpractices 1. Depar Limited in Sagana Town, Kirnyaga 2. Alfa Gas Limited in Makadara, Nairobi 3. Tydes General Merchants Limited at Nyeri Ragati in Market 4. Easi Cooking Gas Limited Off Lunga Lunga Road in Nairobi 5. More Gas Limited in Industrial Area, Nairobi 6. Spareman Trading Limited Home Gas at Nairobi Off Enterprise Road 7. Menengai Engineering & Petroleum located Nairobi Off Nanyuki Road in Makadara  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam