The Unclaimed Financial Assets Authority (UFAA) today holds more than Ksh.20 billion in unclaimed assets — mostly idle cash owed to Kenyans. This currently comprises of Ksh.20 billion in cash and Ksh.1.2 billion share units. In spite of the prevailing economic conditions that have left many Kenyans cash-strapped, the UFAA is not seeing as many claims as it would prefer for the dormant assets. On average, the unclaimed assets regulator is only reuniting a mere one percent of its unclaimed financial assets holdings. In the concluded 2020-2021 financial year to June 30, UFAA reunified a mere 5000 claimants with unused assets. Meanwhile, UFAA has received 6000 claims in the 2021 calendar year and has since paid out Ksh.1 billion. This sum is however a far cry from its total assets holding. Also Read: While awareness may be a factor in the low rate of claims and reunification, UFAA has blamed long and costly procedures for filing claims which has seen many Kenyans shy away from lodging claims for what are ‘negligible sums’. According to the UFAA, costs involved in lodging claims has time after time outweigh the benefits for most Kenyans. “We have the same process of claiming Ksh.10 as Ksh.1 million. One has to through a lawyer, get audited and travel all the way to Nairobi just to claim Ksh.100,” said John Karigiti from the Office of the Auditor General (OAG). UFAA Chairman Richard Kiplagat says the authority is now eyeing regulatory changes to bring down both the cost and procedure for lodging unclaimed assets claims to better the rate of reunification. This to include the use of mobile-money services to pay out claims and creating graduated layers for lodging claims. “Policy needs to look into that. We have a consultant working with the National Treasury on changes and we are hopeful of seeing a review,” he said. Presently, a claimant has to fill a form with the UFAA for reunification with the application being considered by the authority within three months. UFAA nevertheless has to undertake processes to be ‘satisfied’ that the claimant is the owner of all or part of the unclaimed assets as guided by the 2011 Unclaimed Financial Assets Act. To further boost the rate of unification, UFAA has partnered with other State actors including Huduma Centers to bolster awareness of the idle funds. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam