Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) have arrested a suspected serial killer and rapist who has been terrorizing residents of Ruiru, Kiambu County. According to the DCI, 29-year-old Paul Magara Morara, who is believed to be a member of a cult, has been killing women and strangely stealing their panties. The DCI says the suspect, who was arrested Thursday morning, has brutally killed three women and seriously injured four others over the last four months. “Shockingly, Magara has remained in the detectives list of wanted persons since 2020, but the masked hitman was only known by his alias name, Mkisii. According to DCI Ruiru profiling, the masked Magara occasionally struck ladies in the hours of darkness, killing and seriously injuring some before removing and escaping with their panties,” the DCI stated. In a blow-by-blow account the DCI reveals that Magara’s heinous acts began in 2020 at Kiunguru area around Ruiru Bypass, when a woman who had been seen with a man a night before was found dead in her room, with one of her breasts chopped off. Later in January 2021, a young woman who worked at a hair company was found murdered at a local lodging in a similar fashion, moments after she was spotted with Magara. Also Read: “After months of receiving several attempted murder incidents all reported by female victims, another lady was found murdered in her rental house at  Magorofani area of Wataalam,” narrated the DCI. On September 7, the said killer struck again by breaking into the house of two sisters aged 18 and 19, where he stabbed and left them for the dead. One of them is still admitted at Kenyatta National Hospital’s Intensive Care Unit, according to the DCI. “The mysterious agent of death had caused untold panic and terror in the area, with word having it that a vampire was roaming in the dark hunting down women,” reads the statement. In the latest incident, the assailant is reported to have sneaked into a couple’s house on Wednesday night where he stabbed a young woman aged 22 years on the neck before fleeing the scene. “As pursuit for him heightened, the bloodthirsty monster crept into the house of a couple when they were asleep early morning yesterday, stabbing the woman at the neck and vanishing in the dark in seconds,” said the DCI. “The husband rushed his 22-year-old lactating woman to hospital, amidst shock as to how their attacker managed to master their padlock from outside, execute the attack and disappear as he soundly snored.” The woman is said to be recuperating well. Upon receiving the report, a police operation was launched in the area with four suspects being arrested and a mobile phone belonging to one of the sisters attacked in the September 7 incident being recovered. After hours of interrogations on the four, it emerged that one of the suspects, 25-year-old Moses Moogi Okemwa was an accomplice of the prime suspect and that they had jointly executed some of the attacks. “At the crack of dawn today, Ruiru detectives who had camped metres from the house of Magara’s brother ambushed the prime suspect as he headed to have breakfast at his kin’s place,” added the DCI. The 29-year-old was nabbed with a backpack containing a hammer, 7 female panties and an electrical bulb holder. The DCI says further investigations have so far revealed that Magara joined a cult back in 2013, which promised to be paying him for every kill on a woman. “Strangely, showing a woman’s pants would confirm that he indeed deserved a pay. He had however been double-crossed after a Ksh.30,000 down-payment, but continued with the monstrous attacks,” concluded the DCI. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam