Nick Mwendwa has shown his ineptitude as the Football Kenya Federation president by claiming Kenya is deficient in football talent, Harambee Stars legend Josephat Murila has said. Murilla, who also excelled with AFC Leopards in his prime, also wants Mwendwa to take responsibility for his remarks. He has joined stakeholders calling for the Government’s intervention to streamline the management of the sport in the country. Mwendwa made the claims on Monday in a live show on a local TV station, following Kenya’s 6-0 hammering by Mali in World Cup qualifiers. “I started saying this a long time ago. When football continues in the direction it is now then we have no football. We want leaders who will say we are going here and this is what we want to achieve and it happens,” Murila said. The ‘Controller’, as he was fondly called by his fans, Murila is shocked a siting federation boss can blame players for failures squarely on his table. “The mistake he has committed is to say there are no players in Kenya yet since 1964 when we got independence we have produced a lot of quality players who are known in Africa and also in the world. How is it that when it reaches Mwendwa’s reign that the country shockingly doesn’t have players? “Players like Mariga (Macdonald), Oliech (Dennis), Odao (Peter Dawo), Wanyama (Victor) where do they come from? Aren’t they Kenyans?” Murila questioned. His sentiments come barely a day after Mariga told Mwendwa to resign and apologise to Kenyans for ‘’disrespecting’’ Kenyan footballers. On his official Twitter account, Mariga posted that players have suffered, shown immense pride and patriotism to represent the Kenyan flag in various international assignments and thus deserve respect. Former Kenyan international Sammy Sholei also said Mwendwa should apologise for the latest embarrassment, after conceding 6-0. According to Shollei, the new Harambee Stars coach Engin Firat had no time to know the players, a situation caused by Mwendwa himself by firing former coach Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee just three weeks to the crucial matches. “He (Mwendwa) should have taken the opportunity to say sorry to Kenyans instead of defending himself. The problem with our football is that the current leadership does not take any criticism positively. You have to admit you are wrong when you go wrong so that you can be correct yourself,” he said. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam