Citizen TV has learnt of a serious infighting between the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI). At the center of the feud is Court of Appeal Judge Sankale ole Kantai’s link in businessman Tob Cohen’s murder. The DPP wants a senior DCI officer investigated and charged for perjury, also expressing frustration over refusal by DCI to share evidence regarding the case. In a letter to the Inspector General of Police, the DPP claimed the said DCI officer leaked information on the murder case to the public instead of furnishing his office. DPP Noordin Haji, in the letter to the IG, now wants John Gachomo, the senior DCI officer, investigated. Haji has been reluctant to charge Justice Kantai in relation to Tob Cohen’s murder, claiming evidence by DCI amounted to suspicions and assumptions but nothing to place the judge in the murder. Also Read: In a turf war, the DCI went full throttle in an affidavit sworn by John Gachomo who sensationally linked Justice Kantai to Cohen’s widow Sarah Wairimu claiming the two convened several meetings in different places and dates in an alleged plot to cover up the murder. The explosive testimony has stung the DPP, who is accusing the senior DCI officer of disclosing crucial information to the public instead of his office. The DPP also claims he was never informed of the new evidence, further stating that John Gachomo was never part of Cohen’s murder investigating team. Haji essentially admitted that the DCI got his office off-guard with Gachomo’s affidavit. The DPP wants the IG to investigate the conduct of the DCI office including perjury. Upon conclusion of the probe, the IG is to forward the file to the DPP for further action. With the DPP’s office receiving flack for non-commitment and stalling Justice Sankale’s case, Haji has now conceded to inviting a foreign investigative agency to unravel the Tob Cohen murder case. Cohen was murdered in 2019 and his missing body found in an underground tank at his home in Kitisuru, Spring Valley, Nairobi. His wife was charged with his murder. Meanwhile, in court, Haji wants to be enjoined in Justice Sankale’s case against the DCI. The DPP laid bare the bad blood running deep between the two criminal justice institutions now appearing to be working at cross purposes. In the petition by acting Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions Jacinta Nyamosi, the DPP indicates hitting a brick wall trying to obtain material from the DCI on Cohen’s murder case. The DPP indicates in the court papers, “that despite having sought further information, material and evidence directly, the DCI has failed, refused and or neglected to execute his mandate and duties and to respond as required in law.”  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam