The Kenyan Tokyo 2020 Olympic teams were yesterday feted by the Ministry of Sports in conjunction with Kenya Breweries Limited (KBL) for their exploits at the recently concluded Games The athletes were appreciated at the NOC-K Olympics Gala event held at the Carnivore Simba Saloon organised by Kenya Breweries Limited (KBL) and the National Olympic Committee – Kenya (NOCK). The event was graced by Sports and Cultural Heritage CS Amb. Amina Mohammed, Sports Principal Secretary Joe Okudo and NOCK President Paul Tergat, among others. CS Amina Mohammed heaped glowing praise on the team for their exemplary performance that once again highlighted the country’s prowess in Athletics. “Kenya through our athletes made us proud once again during the Tokyo Olympics 2020. We claimed our spot in the world, emerging top in Africa and 19th overall, and it is such moments that make us as a people proud to be Kenyan. We are proud of the Team for their great performances in such difficult situations occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic that posed numerous challenges,” she said. East African Breweries Limited’s Head of Marketing Beers Anne-Joy Michira said that it was an honour for the company to be associated with the team as sponsors. She further noted the company’s commitment to continue supporting sports in the country. “It is such an honour as Kenya Breweries to be part of the Team Kenya story throughout the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. As a company, we believe in sports as an important tool for bringing people together, and for that reason we are always committed and ready to support our sportsmen and women, especially during such important events,” said Michira. Also Read: Kenya Breweries Limited through its flagship beer brand was an official partner during the Games this year through a sponsorship of Ksh. 45 million that went towards supporting the teams’ preparations and logistics during the games. As part of the partnership, the company was also involved in the production of the Team’s official travelling kit as it also conducted a nationwide campaign dubbed “Cheer Our Champions” to rally Kenyans behind the team. On his part, NOCK President Paul Tergat said: “I thank the government and our sponsors including KBL for the support we received. The support went a long way in ensuring the team were well prepared for the Games bearing in mind the difficult circumstances we were operating in. For KBL, this was yet another show of commitment by the company to the growth and development of athletics and sports in general in the country. We are pleased that KBL has continued to stand by us even during difficult moments,” said Tergat. Kenya earned its place on top of the continent in the competition after collecting a total of 10 medals. They won 10 medals – 4 gold, 4 silver and 2 bronze. Emmanuel Korir (800 metres), Faith Chepng’etich Kipyegon (1,500m) alongside marathoners Peres Jepchirchir and World Marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge mined gold, with Hellen Obiri (5,000m), Ferguson Rotich (800m), Timothy Cheruiyot (1,500m) and Brigid Kosgei securing silver. Hyvin Kiyeng and Benjamin Kigen, both in the 3,000m steeplechase scooped bronze. Besides athletics, Kenya featured in Rugby sevens for men and women, boxing, swimming, volleyball, beach volleyball and taekwondo. That haul put Kenya 19th on the overall global standings and top of Africa with Uganda the only other country on the continent that ranked inside the top 50 after collecting four medals. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam