Tirop who represented Kenya in 5000m at the Tokyo Olympics was on Wednesday October 13 found dead in her house in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet County. According to reports, the athlete had stab wounds in the abdomen. In a statement, Athletics Kenya has mourned the 25 year old who has had a glittering career in Kenyan colours. “Athletics Kenya are this afternoon distraught to learn about the untimely death of World 10,000m bronze medalist Agnes Tirop. Tirop was found dead at their home in Iten after she was allegedly stabbed by her husband. We are still working to unearth more details surrounding her demise. Kenya has lost a jewel who was one of the fastest-rising athletics giants on the international stage, thanks to her eye-catching performances on the track. Also Read: We pray that God may grant strength to family and friends at this difficult time.” read the statement. Tirop made her breakthrough in the athletics career after a dominant display in cross country where she bagged a silver medal in Africa Cross Country Championships in 2012 before also winning a silver medal the following year at the World Cross Country Championships. In 2014, she upgraded to a gold medal when she took victory at the Africa Cross Country Championships held in Uganda. A year later she transited to the senior level where she bagged a gold medal at the world Cross Country Championships in Guiyang, China. Tirop who was set to turn 26 on October 23 also clinched back-to-back bronze medals in 10,000m at the World Championships- 2017 in London, United Kingdom and 2019 in Doha, Qatar. The athlete has also been outstanding in the roads having smashed the women-only record in the women’s 10km at Road to Records Race in Germany, timing 30:01 last month. Last week, she finished an impressive second, timing 30:20 at the Valencia Half Marathon. The new development is a big blow to the athletics fraternity as it comes just days after another international athlete Hosea Macharinyang was found dead in his home in West Pokot County. Machariyang is set to be laid to rest on Thursday. Report by Gilbert Kiprotich and Jacob Icia Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam