85 per cent of bank transactions are now being conducted via mobile phones according to new data from the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK). This means that for every 10 Kenyans transacting with their bank, eight persons are doing so from their hand held devices. In contrast, bank transactions on mobile phones stood at just 55.7 per cent (about six out of every 10 transactions) before the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic. A view of mobile transactions inside two of Kenya’s biggest banks- Equity and KCB unveils foothold of the mobile banking deals which have not only valued but also supposed traditional legacy channels. 98 per cent of transactions at the Equity Group are outside branches with 87.2 per cent of the transactions represented by mobile and internet banking. In contrast, branch and ATM transactions are merely 1.5 and 4.2 per cent while agency banking represents only 6.3 per cent of the lender’s deals. Also Read: Meanwhile, 68 per cent of the bank’s transactions value lies outside the bank with 44.3 per cent being recorded in mobile and internet banking. In six months to June 30 2021, 89 per cent of Equity loans were being disbursed via mobile.
Like Equity, KCB has 98 per cent of its transactions outside branches with 80 per cent of the transactions on mobile. Further, the lender’s mobile deals are representative of 29 per cent of KCB’s total transactions by value. Between January and June this year, KCB recorded 181 million mobile transactions valued at Ksh.1.1 trillion and booked revenues of Ksh.3.2 billion from the channel. Float purchase and customer to business (C2B) represents the largest chunk of KCB mobile transactions at 37 and 35 per cent respectively. During the same period, KCB processed 115 million mobile loans valued at Ksh.74 billion. With the switch to mobile channels, many banks have opted to cut back on their branch network size. For instance GulfAfrican Bank announced on Friday that it would be closing three of its branches in Westlands, Luthuli Avenue and Bombolulu by the end of March 2022. Earlier on Thursday, SBM indicated it would be merging three branches and two express units into existing outlets. “In the present day, amidst the pandemic, more people are embracing technology and the use of hand-held devices for day-to-day activities. As a result, the rising demand for convenient financial services is inevitable, hence at SBM Bank Kenya we plan to leverage on the growing mobile usage in the country to offer digital products that will make banking for our customers more efficient and convenient,” said Moezz Mir, CEO of SBM Bank Kenya. Nevertheless, banks such as Equity and NCBA have indicated plans to open new branches as they still view the brick and mortar outlets as critical to their operations. This is as branches have are tied to big ticket transactions and advisory services. Despite the switch to mobile banking, KCB saw the average size of branch teller transaction rise by 23 per cent to Ksh.350,000 underlining the value of the physical outlets. Moreover, the role of branches in reinforced by an increased in the number of banking halls by 12 to 1502 in 2020. While largely positive, CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge warns of bubbling risks including cyber threats as he emphasizes vigilance by banking sector stakeholders. “Operational risks remain elevated for instance on digital channels. Digital channels are now the work horse of banking and finance in Kenya. As such, issues such as fraud need to be dealt with,” he said on Wednesday. According to the latest national cyber threat landscape report by the Communication Authority of Kenya (CA), banking infrastructure remains on the list of top targets for cyber criminals. “During the period April to June 2021, 38.8 million cyber threat events were detected. This was an increase of 37.3 percent from the previous period January to March 2021,” the CA noted “This increase in cyber threat events detected is attributed to the significant increase in targeted attacks at internet of things (IoT) devices, increased activity by organised cyber-crime groups, adoption of more sophisticated tools by ransom ware gangs, increased targeted attacks at critical systems and services, increased exploits of mobile application vulnerabilities; increased targeted attacks at cloud-based supported services and unsecured infrastructure, and increased adoption of botnet and Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack techniques.” Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam