Police in Busia have detained George Oduori, a murder suspect accused of killing a 21-year-old man known only as Owino over a memory card. According to a police report from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), the deceased paid a visit to the suspect last week and demanded the memory card for his phone, which he had previously given to the suspect. Detectives familiar with the case say  the suspect, armed with a machete, refused to return the card and instead hacked the Owino to death. “When Owino walked to Oduori’s compound at 9pm on the fateful night and made his demand for the tiny storage device, a furious Oduori struck him leaving him dead in a pool of blood.” a police report seen by Citizen Digital says. “Unbeknownst to the deceased, Oduori had become so obsessed with the contents in the memory card, that he could not contemplate parting with it, opting to kill its owner instead.,” The suspect is then accused of covering his crime by burying the deceased’s body in a shallow grave inside his farm during the night. He would be outed by his wife a week later, who also told police that she had been threatened against reporting the matter. The matter only came to the fore after the suspect’s wife reported the October 2 incident to the police. “It was until last evening that Oduori’s wife reported the October 2 incident to the police, allegedly after a week of daring threats from the husband,” the DCI said on Saturday. The crime scene has been roped off while detectives await orders for an exhumation and subsequent post mortem. In an eerily similar incident in Nairobi, a family in Huruma is mourning the death of their Form Three son, who was allegedly stabbed to death after demanding the return of his memory card from a friend. “The student succumbed to two stabs on the head and a third one at his chest, when his assailant who was unwilling to give back the storage device brandished a knife and attacked him,” the DCI said on Saturday. The student succumbed to his injuries at a local hospital where he had been rushed by well wishers after the incident. A manhunt for his attacker who went on the lam shortly after the incident has been launched. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam