Deputy President William Ruto has rubbished ODM leader Raila Odinga’s promise of Ksh.6,000 monthly stipends to poor households, saying the unemployed Kenyans want jobs not handouts. Raila promised that under his government,  a social welfare program would be rolled out,  reaching  at least 8 million people in just one year. According to the former Prime Minister, the programme would help bridge the poverty gap in the country. On Saturday, however, DP Ruto, who is on a three-day tour of the coastal region,  said Kenyans, particularly those who are jobless are not interested in handouts but opportunities. “Namwamba bwana kitendawili karibu, karibu tuongeee mambo ya hustler, na mambo ya uchumi, lakini usituletee handout, hawa wakenya hawataki handout, hawa wakenya vijana wanataka kazi,” DP Ruto said. According to the deputy president, when he began the conversation about the bottom-up economy, everyone was quick to tell him off, especially his competitors who have now conveniently joined the economy talk. “Hawa watu wote wakati tulianza huu mjadala tuliwaambia mjadala utabadilika, hata mtu ya kitendawili amekubali, leo anaongea lugha ya mahustler,”  he added. DP Ruto begun his three-day vote hunt in Mombasa’s Kongowea market, Tudor and later held a public rally at Mombasa Posta grounds. While addressing rallies, the DP seized the moment to tell off those he accused of victimising and branding him all sorts of negative names to set him against the public. “Hawa watu wote wakati tulianza huu mjadala tuliwaambi mjadala utabadilika, hata mtu ya kitendawili amekubali,leo anaongea lugha ya mahustler,” The DP claimed he helped opposition chief Raila Odinga become the Prime Minister and at the same time, helped Uhuru Kenyatta become Kenya’s fourth president. “Si mimi nimesaidia rafiki yak Uhuru Kenyatta akakuwa rais? Si wakati huo walikuwa wanasema mimi ni mtu mzuri sana?” the DP posed. According to the DP, now that he wants to be the country’s  fifth president, the narrative has changed and he has become the dark horse. “Sasa vile nimesema nisaidie mama mboga, nisaidie mtu wa boda boda wamenza kunibandika majina, ati ooh Ruto si mzuri,  ooh sijui Ruto ni mkora, ooh sijui Ruto ni mwizi, siku ile mimi nilikuwa nawasaidia wao nilikuwa mtu mzuri,” he added . The DP described this as the height of pretence and political hypocrisy. “Leo nawasaidia hawa wanyonge nimekuwa mkora, si hii ni utapeli.. hawa watu waache mchezo nanii… wakwende…” he added. Ruto said he was aware of a plot to derail his presidential quest with all his competitors ganging up against him but said he had the people’s power. The Deputy President has toured Taita Taveta, Kwale and Kilifi in his three-day tour of the coast region. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam