With just 30 days left to the start of the new season, NSL side Murang’a SEAL have every reason to do better after it landed a sponsorship deal worth  Sh26 million from a local gaming firm. The deal that was penned down on Friday last week will run for an undisclosed time, but SEAL’s tactician Vincent Nyaberi says it will go a long way in helping them achieve their promotion dream at the end of the coming season. “I want to promise our sponsors that we must be promoted to the top tier league, this deal will now help the players dedicate all their time to the team because now their salary and allowances is guaranteed,” he said. According to the tactician,  in the previous seasons his charges could not dedicate all their time to playing football because they engaged in other income generating activities that would help them provide for their families. “We have never given our best in the league because we don’t train together since all our players are family men who have to provide for their families hence we lacked co-ordination during matches,” he noted. To achieve this target, Nyaberi whose charges joined camp to prepare for the new season a week ago, says he must reinforce his attacking options, to make them more lethal in the final third. Also Read: “We are going to sign quality players because we are now able to cater for their welfare,” he enthused. After finishing at position 12 in the just concluded NSL season 2020/2021 with 45 points, team captain Peter Mwaura is optimistic that with his side now being supported financially, they will be playing their hearts out to  secure promotion to the FKF-PL next season. ‘This sponsorship has come as a morale booster; we have never had quality training like the one we are having now because our needs have been taken care of by the management,” said Mwaura, adding that, “We have never concentrated fully with the team because before we think about football we think about providing for our families first. With our previous status we could not depend on football to provide for our needs.” Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam