KPA basketball teams had a successful weekend against their Equity Bank opponents at the Makande Gymnasium in Mombasa today. KPA’s ladies inflicted first defeat to defending champions Equity Hawks to leap-frog them to the helm of Women’s Premier League. In the noon tip-off, KPA ladies side defeated equity Hawks 78-48 to go top, and will have a home-court advance in the play-offs should they maintain their position until the end of the season. In what Equity Bank overall head coach David Maina described as “a hapless display”,  his charges failed to replicate the form that had seen them become the only undefeated side this season after they allowed the Dockers to race to a 13-10 lead in the first quarter before strong second quarter gave them a 41-18 lead into the break. KPA made the most of Equity’s many turnovers and poor defense in the second half to seal a memorable 78-48 win and rise to the apex of the log with 23 points. Maina, who cut a downcast figure after the final whistle, made no bones on how poor his team was on their trip to Mombasa. Also Read: “We were poor in all aspects and credits to KPA for giving us a good game that will keep us focused. We turned the ball over many times which is unacceptable for any ambitious side,”  Equity Bank head coach Maina said. His KPA counterpart Anthony Ojukwu lauded his charges for holding their own against the defending champions while expressing belief that they have what it takes to dethrone the bankers this season. “The girls did a good job from the beginning to the end and I could not as them for more. This is the kind of display that can help us go all the way this season,” he told Citizen Digital. In the men’s league, KPA made the most of their home court to defeat Equity Bank 68-60 to maintain their ascendancy on the log. The team’s kept the scores close until the fourth quarter before KPA scored five straight baskets to stretch their lead to 12 points thanks to a 63-51 scoreline. KPA coach Sammy Kiko could not hide his delight at their latest win, terming it as a demonstration of their championship contender credentials. “Am happy because we have worked hard for the win. We had a bad day in terms of shooting from the arc but I am excited because we also proved that we can rely on defense and middle jumpers to win. This is very impressive.” Equity Bank coach Carey ‘T9’Odhiambo felt his side could have done more to prevent KPA’s surge in the last quarter. “There were moments I felt we were comfortable which is very dangerous against an opponent who has quality players. We will have to work on our shooting to prevent rebounds that become fast-break points for our opponents,” he noted. Weekend Results Nairobi City Thunder 62-60 Blades KU Oryx 42-36 Eagle Wings Zetech 59-39 Strathmore Neosasa 20-00 Kisii Raptors UON Dynamites 57-42 Storms KU Oryx 49-44 ANU Coastal Queens 32 MMU 52 Coastal Kings 67 ANU 69 KPA 98 ANU 36 Sunday KPA 78-44 Equity Hawks KPA 68-60 Equity Bank. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam