Deputy President William Ruto has chided the Mount Kenya Foundation for what he said was cutting political deals at the expense of the voters saying he is not interested in boardroom meetings. Ruto’s comments come following the highly publicised meetings between the Mount Kenya Foundation leadership and ODM leader Raila Odinga as well as the One Kenya Alliance principals where they outlined their agenda for the Central Kenya region. The group is set to retreat before declaring who they will be supporting in the 2022 elections, with DP Ruto however urging his competitors to hit the road and gain the support of the voters. As the scramble for the vote rich Central Kenya region continues to intensify, the DP also fought back at individuals seemingly opposed to his bid. “Mimi siwezi enda interview kwa hoteli, kama kuna mahali nitaenda interview ni hapa kwenu ndio tujue vijana watapata kazi namna gani,” he said. While mocking the dalliance between the foundation and his political opponents, the DP dismissed the meetings saying his focus was on advancing his development agenda. Also Read: “Kuna majamaa wengine wako kwa mahoteli kule Nairobi ati nyinyi mumetuma hao waende wawafanyie interview watu ambao wanataka kuwa rais. Kuna mtu mmetuma kwa hoteli afanye interview watu wa kuwa rais? Mwenye kuamua urais wa Kenya ni nyinyi au watu wameketi kwa hoteli?” He posed. In a subtle attack at the foundation’s leadership known to be wealthy and influential, the DP accused them of engaging in boardroom meetings to cut political deals that favoured them and left out the rest of the country; the group has yet to announce who it will back in the forthcoming elections. “These ordinary citizens are looking for a president who will get then jobs and who will create wealth so that they too can have something,” he said. Addressing a crowd in Isiolo where he attended a church service on Sunday, Ruto continued to pitch his bottom-up economic model. “Tuanze na wale hawana kazi tuwapangie mbinu na sera na mikakati ya vile watapata ajira, na wale wenye biashara ndogo vile tutawasaidia ndio wasihangaishwe na ma-shylock, na vile vile tushughulikie wakulima na wafugaji…ndio tutengeneze mali ambayo inainua maisha ya Wakenya, that is our mission,” he said. According to Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldessa, this was the DP’s 9th visit to the county, further revealing that President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga are set to tour the county next week and she has a to-do list for the Commander-in-Chief. “President akikuja hapa hatutaki alaunch barabara ya World Bank…World Bank wanatujengea barabara na deni…ile kitu sisi tunataka, tunaomba hawa hustlers wapewe titles,” she said.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam