Vihiga Queens are yet to raise the Sh10 million they need to cover for expenses for their CAF Women’s Champions League trip to Cairo, Egypt from November 5 -19. The club’s Chief Executive Mike Senelewa says they have positive responses from some 10 corporates who are willing to partner with them to raise the funds that will cater for the purchase of travelling tickets, training expenses and paying for players allowances as well as the technical team. “Our hope is that very soon we shall have reached the agreement something which will boost the morale of the team going to the Continental assignment,” Senelwa said. On Wednesday, Vihiga Queens officials held an online meeting with CAF representatives on required logistics going to the tournament and according to Senelwa, they are now finalizing their part. “Yesterday we hold a very long discussion with FIFA delegates tackling issues of the tournament. They revealed to us required logistics from us going to Cairo some of them including accommodations, Securing visas for players and officials, exact number of people need to travel, the Covid-19 protocols etc. “From the meeting we have now kicked off our final logistics ahead of the event as we are hoping to travel in the last weekend of October early enough for acclimatizing purposes. CAF will write for us VISA request letter for the whole delegation which we will present to the Egyptian Embassy in Nairobi for easy processing probably Tuesday next week because it requires maximum seven days to be approved” Also Read: With Starlets preparing for their AWCON qualifier against South Sudan, the Boniface Nyamunyamu coached side is left with only 11 players in the Vihiga camp, calling for the concerted efforts between the two coaches to balance the equation. They are expected to travel to Nairobi to intensify their training next week before jetting out to Cairo five days before the kick off of the tournament. “As you are aware we are having half of the team in the camp as the other half is with the national team, Harambee Starlets for the AWCON Qualifiers. We are happy that head coach Charles Okere called big number of our players and they are training with others meaning we are okay. We are planning to travel to Nairobi next week for our camp though we haven’t got the place yet. “We shall be on the camp for one week before we travel to Cairo.” Said Senelwa. Vihiga Queens qualified for the continental extravaganza after beating Commercial Bank of Ethiopia 2-1 in Nairobi on September 9 in the final of Cecafa Women Club Championships to book the single ticket reserved for the region. They will open their campaign against Mamelodi of South Africa on November 6 at the Cairo Military Academy Stadium, a day after the opening match pitting Wadi Degla and AS Mande at the Cairo 30 Stadium. Vihiga Queens were drawn in pool “B” alongside River Angels of Nigeria, Asfar FC of Morocco and Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa while Pool A have hosts Wadi Degla, Mali’s AS Mande, Equatorial Guinea’s Malabo Kings and Hasaacas Ladies from Ghana. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam