Kenyans have earned a slight relief at the pump as the cost of all three petrol products falls in the latest review by the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA). The price of petrol and diesel is set to go down by Ksh.5 beginning midnight on Friday while kerosene costs will fall by the highest margin at Ksh.7.28. The fall in the fuel costs is largely a factor of the reinstatement of the price stabilization mechanism which draws fund from the Petroleum Development Levy. The subsidy makes a return after its freeze in September which sent fuel costs to historical highs across the board. Subsequent to the fuel costs cuts, a litre of petrol will now retail at Ksh.129.72 in Nairobi down from Ksh.134.72 while diesel will now cost Ksh.110.60. Kerosene prices will meanwhile settle at Ksh.103.54 per litre. Also Read: The reduction in costs is against a rise in the landed cost of petrol and diesel costs by 1.71 and 3.1 per cent respectively. “Despite the increase in landed costs, the applicable pump prices for this cycle have been reduced. The government will utilize the Petroleum Development Levy to cushion consumers from the otherwise high prices,”EPRA noted in a statement on Thursday. The National Treasury is expected to compensate oil marketers from a haircut taken in supplier margins/profits in the next pricing cycle to November 14 from funds raised through the petrol levy. Oil marketing companies (OMCs) have agreed to cut their margins for the supply of petrol, diesel and kerosene to Ksh.6.26, Ksh.5.50 and Ksh.7.73 from the usual Ksh.12.39 and Ksh.12.36 respectively. Treasury spent Ksh.8.7 billion in compensating the marketers for the haircut taken between April and August this year when the stabilization mechanism was at play. The lower cost of fuel is expected to result in an ease to the cost of living/inflation which rose to a high 6.91 per cent last month on the back of a spike to fuel costs. Fuel prices could further come down in the near term on recommendations of the Finance and National Planning Committee which include the slashing of VAT on fuel and the petroleum development levy by half. If approved, the recommendations will result in cheaper fuel by between Ksh.7 and Ksh.11 a litre. The new proposals however remain the subject of review by Parliament and assent by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam