Harambee Stars head coach Engin Firat has conceded he has a lot to learn about his players, but is expecting a good start when Kenya takes on Mali on October 7 in a World Cup qualifier. Appointed just over a fortnight Kenya’s back-to-back matches against Mali, Firat has singled out low fitness levels among players as the main problem ahead of the crucial match. He is yet to see some of the foreign based players who will link up with rest in Morocco, but the Turk knows exactly what he cannot correct within the short time. “Look, my main problem is that I don’t have time with the team to prepare everything. Therefore, I need to decide many things very fast, and this is why I included some experienced players who for a long time have not been in the team. “The boys are motivated but the reality is that most of them are not ready physically. We have to find out if we have some physical problems but we have to be tactically superior so as to win the match. I have had short time to come up with the squad,” said a calm Firat, during an open media session on Friday at the Utalii Grounds – Nairobi. The former Moldova head coach who took over from Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee is now demanding “character” from his players, noting the assessment will go beyond the score although the main agenda is to win. Also Read: “Most important for us is that we show character, people outside there see – yes, our boys are fighting to the last second. If we are able to that and tactically put a good strategy, and everybody is disciplined in the strategy, then I’m very hopeful we can change it (history against Mali),” offered the 60-year old tactician. The new coach has challenged young players who have not been capped before to show why they should be in the national team, by merit.  “I always say it is not about me, it’s the player. Well, I decide the player, he decides what goes on in the field. I tell them, look, we are here, we train, I give you a chance and you use it or not. It doesn’t what is your name or how old you are,” averred the coach. Out of the 34-man squad he summoned, the coach will travel with 27 players to Agadir, Morocco, where Mali will host Kenya as their stadia are not ready for CAF matches. “We leave on Monday, some players will go home on Sunday evening. We will go with 26 or 27 because you never know what happens with Covid-19 tests there. Some strange things happened in Togo (controversial results which ruled out a couple of key players during the botched 2022 AFCON qualifiers) and therefore we will need to go with more players then we will see who will be on the field,” he said. Already, Marumo Gallants winger Ovella Ochieng has been dropped for what the Firat explained as issues with his South African club. “We wanted him here but his club decided otherwise and so I don’t think he will be with us.” The coach also explained the inclusion of Sydney Lokale, the Kariobangi Sharks forward who has been out of competitive league, appreciating his physical attributes which he says are unique among Kenyan forwards. Kenya and Uganda are tied on two points in Group “E” behind leaders Mali who have four points, while Rwanda are bottom with a point. The winner of each of the 10 groups in Africa will qualify for the final round of qualifiers where five teams will seal their tickets for the Qatar fiesta in June, 2022. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam