A section of FORD-Kenya party leaders led by Kanduyi Member of Parliament Wafula Wamunyinyi, his Tongaren counterpart Eseli Simiyu and Governor Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati have called for a National Delegates Conference (NDC) next month to iron out issues bedevilling the party. The leaders said the NDC will chart a fresh path for the party including electing new officials. They accused Senator Moses Wetangula of being in office illegally as the party leader stating that he doesn’t enjoy the backing of the party members. “And we want to go to an election. We are inviting Wetangula and team to come to the NDC so that we sort out the conflict in FORD-Kenya once and for all. We don’t want to see continued problems in FORD-Kenya,” said Wamunyinyi. Wanyunyi added: “You cannot be a party leader from a county without a member of parliament behind you and purport to be speaking on behalf of that community on behalf of that county. The sentiments were also echoed by Governor Wycliffe Wangamati. Also Read: “We have agreed that If we go to the NDC and elect Wetangula as our party leader, we will support him. If we elect Wafula Wamunyinyi or somebody else we should be responsible enough to accept the decision or delegates of FORD-Kenya countrywide,” said Wangamati. The leaders, who were addressing the press on Monday, dismissed the Bungoma Senator saying he is a lone ranger, a move they noted is against the party manifesto. “He purpotedly convened a meeting with fake officials and pulled out of NASA without geniune officials. He is purpoted to have signed some agreement with OKA coalition which is illegal. Wetangula doesn’t have the mandate from the party members. Those are illegal commitments,” said Wamunyinyi. In a rejoinder Moses Wetangula dismissed calls to convene the NDC saying the faction have no capacity to do so. “I have seen on social media a notice purportedly issued by Eseli calling for an NDC. There will be no NDC called by Dr. Eseli because he has no capacity to call for an NDC in FORD Kenya. He is not the SG of FORD-Kenya. The Secretary General of FORD-Kenya is not an individual it’s an office,” said Wetangula. The party has been embroiled in wrangles with two factions pulling separately thwarting the smooth operation of the outfit. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam