Shujaa head coach Innocent “Namcos” Simiyu has lauded his charges for the good show in the just concluded 2021 World Rugby Sevens Series, where they finished third on the log with 34 points. The national Sevens team displayed a blistering form, registering impressive results in the two tournaments of the season -Vancouver and Edmonton- despite lukewarm pre-season. Simiyu has however challenged the team not to rest on their laurels ahead of the upcoming season, which will see heavyweights Fiji, New Zealand and France among others who missed the short 2021 season make a return. “They played well in the two tournaments in Vancouver and Edmonton but there is still a lot to be done because there are some areas e will be the top level during the start of the new season. If we work hard in training and correct our mistakes, we might be able to secure the main cup in the new serie,” Simiyu assessed. Simiyu noted some of the errors that cost Shujaa in the Vancouver final they lost to South Africa’s Blitzboks, saying they will need to iron them out in readiness for the new season. “We need to improve on our kick off reception, and also adapt our game to teams that focus more on defensive pressure as well as tackle areas. It’s nothing much because the players are doing well, we just need to be more efficient.” Also Read: Alvin ‘Buffah’ Otieno has been the stand out player for the Shujaa, making the dream team in the two tournaments. “Alvin Otieno has played really well. Looking at his journey he has been training so hard to get to where he is right now and we are so happy for him. He however has a lot more to do to ensure he keeps on performing at the top level and we will be so elated to see him play professional rugby overseas.”  Buffah says playing in overseas as his coach says would be a dream come true, crediting his young family for the motivation that has kept him moving so far. “That would be a dream come true. Everyone loves growth and I would really love it if I got the chance to play internationally. I have had a long journey with success and a fair share of challenges including injuries, but this is my job and that’s what I love. I love making Kenya proud and also making myself and my family proud,” said Otieno. The Kenya Rugby Union recently announced plans to start a Kenya Sevens Under-20 team and Simiyu says this a game changer in building a more competitive Shujaa. “Having an under-20 team would be great for Kenya. There is a huge gap between our players who make it to the first team since most of them are used to playing in the 15s so they are not exposed to the high level of playing. So, we spend most of the time teaching the skills instead of focusing on winning strategies.” Kenyans and fans around the world will be expecting a Shujaa Main Cup victory that has eluded the team since the Singapore Sevens in 2016, under the late Benjamin Ayimba. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam