Tusker head coach Robert Matano alias ‘The Lion’ has attributed the slender 1-0 defeat his team suffered at the hands of visiting Zamalek in the CAF Champions League first leg preliminary  on Sunday at the Nyayo National Stadium to “too much respect” his boys accorded the Egyptians. Tusker, despite playing beautiful football more so in the first half could not muster the win and Matano is still bullish they can turn the tables in the return leg in Cairo. ‘They [Zamalek] have just won the first leg; we’ll win the second leg. What will happen? The venue does not matter, what counts is your ability, what you can do [to win the game], so we are going to win away because they have won away,’ he enthused, adding that, “We have not lost anything, the game has not ended, we are still a match away, we are going to organize ourselves and you will be surprised when we are in Egypt and we are ready for it because we know, if you are ready mentally physique will follow but mental is key… I have seen them and we’ll train for them.” Despite expressing optimism ahead of the return leg in Cairo, the former Sofapaka tactician says a lot still needs to be done more so instilling self-confidence in his players. During the match, with an hour gone, Matano made four substitutions in a bid to change the game but  the introductions of Deogratius Ojok, Kevin Monyi, John Njuguna, and Apollo Otieno, in place of Daniel Sakari, Humphrey Mieno, Shami Kibwana and Jackson Macharia could not make the difference. “We need courage, we have to be composed and we have to have urgency, we need to have that anger to play – we did not have that one (during the first leg), we have our style of play, you have to influence the game so they have to do it.” Also Read: ‘It’s hard to correct mistakes before because you need to be playing. When the league is on it is easier to identify mistakes and rectify them but here we have been training amongst ourselves or against small teams and they can’t give you resistance; they can’t resist your pressure,’ he noted. According to the veteran coach, his defenders Eugene Asike and new signing Daniel Sakari struggled because they were with the national team but did not play the double-header against Mali in the 2022 World Cup qualifier. ‘We did not have that match fitness because performance goes with the previous match, so they did not have match fitness despite being on national duty but they did not play a single match so they started slow but picked up well in the second half,’ noted Matano. Zamalek coach Patrice Carteron gave credit to Tusker despite picking a win away in Nairobi. ‘They are really well organized, strong defensively, they are good in duels, a lot of crossing, they are a tough team to play against. They have experience in Africa and this means when you are Kenyan Champion you are a good team,’ he noted. In the end, Zamalek held onto their slender advantage as they got a crucial away goal in the first leg courtesy of forward Achraf Bencharki. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam