The 2008 800m Olympics gold medalist Wilfred Bungei has urged the Government and the Ministry of Sports to come up with mental health training programs to assist athletes who are going through tough times. Speaking to our sister station Hot 96, Bungei also urged athletics and other sports men not to shy away from speaking about the challenges they are facing adding that by doing so it reduces the chances of getting into depression. “It’s high time the government sat down and put a kitty for these athletes and also in conjunction with the sports ministry; arrange and have regular seminars to educate these athletes on how to manage fame and plan for their future when they are still at their prime and invest their money well ,”said Bungei Bungei who captained Kenya’s team at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing was speaking in the wake of the murder of fellow Olympian Agnes Tirop who was last week found dead in her house in Iten. Bungei reckons this is a wakeup call to the government to take a bigger look into the welfare of sportsmen and women in the country. “When I came out in public to speak about my struggle with alcohol, people thought I was crazy but it really helped me and many other people. What happened to Agnes is a serious wakeup call and it’s high time we have a serious conversation about mental health in the sporting industry. Also Read: We should not just celebrate them when they shine and deep down they are going through a lot hence the need to create time and engage then; find out how they are doing and guide then,” added Bungei. Having struggled with alcoholism a few years ago, the ‘Captain’ as he is famously known by fellow athletes emphasized on the need for athletes to plan well for their retirement to avoid abject life in retirement. “What people don’t know is that when you are at your prime your daily life is planned for almost one year ahead so there is no time for leisure and when you retire you are tempted to make up for the time you didn’t have to enjoy . So it’s very important to teach these athletes how they need to plan for their retirement to avoid wasting all their saving in leisure,” the 800 meters gold medalist said. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam