Ulinzi Warriors head coach William Balozi has hailed his players’ character for their towering performances this season in the basketball premier league. Balozi, whose side sits at the apex of the men’s league with 29 points after 15 rounds of play, has revealed to Citizen Digital that their primary objective is to retain their crown despite stiff competition from fellow title hopefuls Equity Bank and Kenya Ports Authority (KPA). He has expressed optimism that his players have what it takes to close out the regular season in style and sustain a deep run in the playoffs. “We understand that all teams want to beat us because we are the defending champions, but my players have the discipline and character to overcome those challenges. “I’m not surprised that we are the best ranked team in the men’s league so far because the players have the hunger to defend their title.” Despite their enviable success this season, the seasoned tactician is mindful of the threat posed by KPA and Equity but is confident his charges under the leadership of Kenyan internationals James Mwangi, Victor Bosire and Eric Mutoro will hold their own come postseason. Also Read: The trio was key to the team’s title conquest last season and has not dropped their guard this term, with their starring performances helping the team garner 14 wins from 15 outings this season. “We understand that every team is targeting the title, and that makes defeating us their primary ambition. “With these players, I am confident that we can approach the post-season with a high level of optimism. “They have an enviable work ethic and I think they will become better for us when we approach the playoffs.” Warriors will take their title hunt to Eldoret on Sunday when they will take on play0ff-chasing Eldonets. Warriors’ narrow 56-52 weekend scalp against Nairobi City Thunder took their tally to 29 points, three points ahead of second placed Equity Bank Hawks. Weekend Results Kisumu Lakeside 68-63 Strathmore University Kisumu Lady Bucks 49-56 Strathmore University KPA 71-43 Storms Umoja 40- 35 KCA KPA 59-51 Nairobi City Thunder UON Terror 53-56 Ulinzi Warriors Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam