Zamalek SC won 1-0 against Tusker FC in the in the opening leg of their CAF Champions League second preliminary round tie at the Nyayo National Stadium. Victory put Zamalek in the driving seat and will now need to see out the second leg set for next week on Friday to advance to the group stages of the continent’s premier clubs competition. Achraf Bencharki scored the winner in the 47th minute to settle a tie in which the visiting Egyptians appeared to be always in control of. Seifeddine Jaziri expertly brought down a long ball down under his control and braced to shoot but Asike arrived quickly to snuff out the danger for Tusker. Both sides were comfortable with the ball with possession evenly shared but neither created a clear opening in the opening half hour. During that opening period the only real danger came from Ibrahim Mwakasaba who met Boniface Muchiri’s powerfully but failed to apply enough direction on it and watched his effort fly just off target. Also Read: Zamalek captain Youssef Mohamed fired a great ball into space for the run of Ahmed Mostafa but goalkeeper Brian Bwire read the move and rushed off his lines to thwart the attack. Mohamed made a darting run towards the byline and then squared it back for Mohamed Hamdy who produced a horrible miss from two meters off an empty net. The forward’s attempt for a one-time connection let him down, misguiding it back across goal where Bwire had gone to cover Mohamed and his effort was picked up. Tusker conceded immediately after the break through Achraf Bencharki who drove past the Tusker defence and slotted a left-footed finish beyond Bwire. Muchiri almost levelled matters immediately on the other end after layoff from Mwakasaba but his effort lacked sufficient sting and was collected easily by goalkeeper Mohamed Abou. Desperate to turn the momentum back on his side, coach Robert Matano made a triple substitution with Humphrey Mieno, Jackson Macharia and Daniel Sakari making way for Apollo Otieno, Deogratious Ojok and Kevin Monyi. Amdy thought he had grabbed Zamalek’s second of the afternoon when he had the ball in the back of the net but his effort was ruled out for offside. Ahmed Mostafa strung a quick one-two with Jaziri who lofted the ball above Hillary Wandera to set his teammate on target but it was a narrow angle and the final effort just missed the target. Zamalek were now dominating the proceedings and creating the better chances and should have got the two-goal cushion when Bencharki profited from a missed clearance and raced through on goal. He chose to round the goalkeeper but failed to sort his feet out on time and the chance was gone when he could have played in his teammate Mahmoud Fadlalla on the right for an easy tap in. Bwire made a sharp dive to deny Fadlalla late on and Muchiri nearly earned Tusker a draw with the last kick of the match with a wild hit from long range but it narrowly missed the target. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam