Vihiga Queens chief executive officer (CEO) Mike Senelwa believes that the 10 players called up to the National team (Harambee Starlets) will  help strengthen  their squad ahead of the  inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League slated for November 5 -19 in Cairo, Egypt. Vihiga who resumed training today after five days off following their 2-1 defeat in the FKF Women’s Cup on October 2, 2021 at the Nakuru Showground have intensified their preparations ahead of the continental showpiece. The 10 players who were called up by Starlets head coach Charles Okere includes Jentrix Shikangwa, Terry Engesha, Janet Bundi, Maureene Achieng, Enez Mango (Captain), and Lillian Awuor (goalkeeper). Others are; Marceline Odinga, Phoebe Owiti, Vivian Nasaka and Dorcas Neema. The Starlets are gearing up for the first leg of the African Women Cup Of Nations (AWCON) qualifiers against Sudan on October 20,  in Khartoum, before hosting them in Nairobi four days later for the return leg. “It’s a big boost for us after 10 of our players joined the national team. By doing so, they will gain experience of playing against competitive teams in the qualifiers and I believe they will inject some good motivation to the rest when they will rejoin their team mates,” he said. Also Read: The CEO further said they are yet to settle on a venue for their high attitude training camp, similar to Cairo before the continental showpiece “We are having a plan for high attitude training camp but we haven’t settled on the place due to financial constrains. Currently we are struggling financially but it’s something we are working on as management and it will be known soon.” Elsewhere the club’s head coach Boniface NyamuhNyamuh has revealed their probable date for travel to the Northern Africa country. “We haven’t set the exact date for travel, but probably it may be November 1, 2021. We want to be there early enough for acclimatizing purposes before the tournament kicks off.” Vihiga Queens qualified for the continental extravaganza after beating Commercial Bank of Ethiopia 2-1 in Nairobi on September 9 in the final of Cecafa Women Club Championships to book the single ticket reserved for the region. They will open their campaign against Mamelodi of South Africa on November 6 at the Cairo Military Academy Stadium, a day after the opening match pitting Wadi Degla and AS Mande at the Cairo 30 Stadium. The Boniface NyamuNyamuh coached side are drawn in pool “B” alongside River Angels of Nigeria, Asfar FC of Morocco and Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa while Pool A has hosts Wadi Degla, Mali’s AS Mande, Equatorial Guinea’s Malabo Kings and Hasaacas Ladies from Ghana. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam