A group of German and Kenyan Universities are spearheading a campaign aimed at making students think business, and work towards becoming entrepreneurs, as job opportunities continue to shrink and the number of graduates continue to bulge. Five Kenyan universities including Mount Kenya University, Kenyatta University, Karatina University, Dedan Kimathi University of Technology and Chuka University have been collaborating with universities from Germany including Leuphana University, Bonn- Rehn – Seign University of applied sciences, Leipzig University, Wismar University, University of Saarland among others to identify students with unique ideas, develop them and assist them to start businesses. The project, which is being funded by German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) and German’s Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development, has already seen about 750 students trained. So determined have been the institutions to scale the heights of entrepreneurship, that in Karatina University, the institution has made entrepreneurship a compulsory programme for all the students, in turn making many students who were not studying business related programs, develop interest in entrepreneurship. This has also led to the emergence of several businesses including Value Added Purple Tea Project, an enterprise that is promoting consumption of Purple tea as a healthy drink that can prevent lifestyle disease and enhance human immune system . The participating universities held the 1st International Conference on Entrepreneurial Universities of Africa at the Mount Kenya University. The meeting provided a platform through which Collaboration for Entrepreneurial Universities (CEPU) and Developing Entrepreneurial Universities in Kenya. The projects under which the universities are operating disseminate their findings on possible toolkits to creating entrepreneurial Universities in Africa, as well as demystify an entrepreneurial university in a dynamic world. The blended forum attracted both in presence and virtual participants at the Mwai Kibaki Convention Centre at MKU Thika campus. Welcoming participants, MKU Vice Chancellor Prof. Deogratius Jaganyi urged the German and Kenyan partners to ensure that the gains made are not lost. Prof. Jaganyi lamented that latest statistics from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics indicate that 1.25 million out of the 2.49 million jobless Kenyans are not looking for jobs, simply because there are no jobs. He added that the sure way to wealth creation was through entrepreneurship, noting that a number of graduates from MKU had already taken that path, joining in the footsteps of the founder of MKU, Professor Simon Gicharu , who has invested over the years, making MKU the largest private university in the country, in terms of student population. His sentiments were echoed by the representative of DAAD in Kenya, Beate SCHINNDLER –Kovats  who urged African Universities to adjust training with labour market requirements. In a virtual keynote presentation, the Chief guest, Dr. Kamal Bhattacharya , Professor of Pro- Rector Research and Transfer at International University of Applied Sciences , Germany called on colleges to embrace online education through large scale adoption of technologies that is crucial for Entrepreneurs in the continent , amidst global competition . The collaboration between DAAD and Kenyan Universities on this particular project kicked off in the year 2018 and is expected to be concluded in December this year. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam