Kenya’s 6-0 aggregate thrashing by Mali added the misery of an early FIFA World Cup qualifiers exit to a year in which the Harambee Stars have been brought crashing back down to earth after also bottling the chance to play at the next year’s Africa Cup of Nations. Stars failed to win back-to-back AFCON slots yet again early this year and there was nothing left in the Kenya tank during a 1-0 defeat by the Eagles of Mali last Sunday in a World Cup Group E qualifiers return leg, after a 5-0 thumping in the first leg in Morocco. The defeat thus ended Kenya’s dream of qualifying for her first ever World Cup as Mali took total control of the group leading with seven points two above Uganda. Kenya lies third on two points with Rwanda on the bottom with one point. Former Kenyan internationals Simon Mulama and Boniface Ambani have waded into the team’s horror show debate saying Kenya must make clear changes to get the team back on the rails. Mulama, 41, said Stars failed to make any mark in the qualifiers due to lack of experience on the international stage, since two coaches that were handling the team in the last 4 matches, dropped a higher number of the squad that took part in the AFCON 2019, just a year after the tournament. “Players like (Patrick) Matasi, (Philemon) Otieno, (Brian) Mandela, (Musa) Mohammed, (Victor) Wanyama, (Teddy) Akumu, (Eric) Johanna, (Johanna) Omollo, (Ayub) Timbe, and many more were all over sudden dropped from the national team a year later after taking Kenya to the AFCON, all these are possible starters and their omission denied the team the needed experience” he wondered. Also Read:  Mulama who turned out for AFC Leopards and Mathare United, added that the 2019 team had gained experience due to playing on the international stage to a point they won crucial matches en route to Egypt. “Why should there be inconsistency when it comes to national call-ups? It’s unfortunate that a year later players that beat a big team like Ghana in the group stage qualifiers are no longer included in the national team and none has retired, had we maintained this team may be results would have been different,” said Mulama. Though he says posting of positive results was the only way of maintaining a coach at the helm of the nation team, he attributed the player-consistency to frequent changing of guards at the national team may have affected the players mentally. He recalled that in just four qualifier group matches, FKF President Nick Mwendwa hired Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee, who managed Stars against Uganda and Rwanda managing to secure two draws, before he was fired to pave way for Turkish Engin Firat who is yet two register a single win with the Stars after losing double- headers against Mali. “When you change a coach in the middle of a qualifier it affects the by a big percentage because each coach will come up with players that he think will deliver the set target. “Things like players’ expectations, certain players’ partnership and many more do change, though I won’t attribute this entirely to our dismal display but from my own experience it affected team’s performance by a certain percentage.”  Mulama’s sentiments were echoed by former AFC Leopards and Tusker FC forward Ambani, who noted that the national team lack inspiration from an experienced leader, adding that sidelining experienced players affect Stars ambitions. “Any players can play for the national team but those that were given an opportunity did not prove themselves. Leaving Wanyama (Victor) out of the squad then installing Olunga(Michael) as national team captain was a rushed decision, he is still young and has no leadership skills compared to Wanyama captained the team for almost eight years,” he offered. With Kenya now having no hopes of making it to Qatar with two games to play, the former Tanzanian Young African striker suggested it was high time for the federation to hire a coach on long term basis agreement. “This is the best time to start planning for 2026 or 2030 World Cup, let FKF hire an experienced coach and give him a contract of like three years and let him come up with his own technical bench, this will give him time to concentrate and pick his best squad for the upcoming campaigns.” “I would urge coach (Firat) not to call foreign based players for the remaining two matches, i would love to see him give the local based players an opportunity to play in the remaining matches (Uganda and Rwanda) for a believe this will give him an opportunity to pick the best players that ply their trade locally,” he added. Mulama who played 14 matches for the Stars and scored two goals still believes Kenya can make her maiden World Cup appearance ever in 2030, only if the federation can start building from the grassroots which he termed as the epicenter of talent in the country. ‘We can beat Ghana today then lose to Rwanda (which is not a tough side compared to Ghana) simply because we don’t have the capacity to register positive results consistently, to achieve this with World Cup in mind we need to strengthen our structures with an aim of developing and nurturing talents because this is the only way we can have players reaching the required level of posting consistent positive results. With this playing in the World Cup 2030 will be a reality.” Kenya play Uganda away in Kampala on November 13 before hosting Rwanda in Nairobi three days later in the last group E match. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam