By Patience Nyange and Esther Kiragu This week on the #KenyaWomenSeries we feature Muthoni Wachira, a dynamic communicator, who is building her brand to be a household name in the corporate world. At the age of 29, Muthoni is a force to reckon with. The communication specialist has 11-years of experience in print and digital media as well as in politics and current affairs. She has collaborated with different agencies, individuals and organizations to conceptualize and launch numerous distinguished brand campaigns in the Kenyan Market. 1. Briefly tell us about your entry into career life and some memorable moments. My career dates back to the Inysder magazine where I began as a junior writer. I rose to be a top editor for the magazine. It’s while at the Inysder that I met a friend, the late Brian Weyama, who pushed me to maximize my potential. While working alongside him, I learnt Project management. While working at the Inysder magazine, I participated in the creation of various brands including: Always, Aquafresh, Colgate, Cadbury Chocolate, Nokia, Coca-Cola, just to name but a few. This is one of my proudest moments. Inysder magazine is an umbrella of Teenwise Media Agency that bore two other agencies within. I can’t also credit my success without mentioning Gina Din Kariuki. I had the privileged to pass through her mentorship when I was starting. That was an eye-opener for me and laid a firm foundation for my PR practice. I am also a certified Animator from Shangtao Media which also couples as a part of my success journey. This has seen me tap into my creative side and have a keen eye for details. 2. You were the brains behind the SSS3 campaign (Super Senator Sakaja) that saw Johnson Sakaja get into Parliament as the current Nairobi County Senator. Please share with us your experience working on this and some of the lessons from running a political campaign. The campaign was a great success attributed to teamwork. I worked on several projects during the campaign period in 2017, because I was also incorporated in the Hon Kiraitu Murungi campaign of Meru County. My role was to develop strategies. My greatest lesson through the process is that we should not assume that early success when launching a new program means the results will be what you promised a client.  3. You have risen the ranks from a PR manager at OPPO Kenya to Head of Corporate Communications and Projects at OPPO Kenya. Please walk us through your career journey and some of your most successful career moments and the events that have shaped these. I joined OPPO about three years ago, which has been an answered prayer. The environment has pushed and stretched me in equal measure and allowed me to grow. I love the brand and telling its story. I have enjoyed each product launch that I have coordinated from conception to execution together with my team and our PR Agency. Everything about the launches has allowed me to learn. I have fallen in love with the tech world. I have evolved and I have become. My greatest support at OPPO is my CEO Rey Huan, an amazing gentleman who has allowed me to be. He has allowed me to flap my wings and fly, to take the brand to new heights and levels. As I look back at the milestones of the brand, I am grateful to see the many things that I once spoke of as just an idea being actualized now. Above all, I am grateful for all the strong women who have gone ahead of me. They continue to serve as my lens at the top and hold my hand as I chatter in my career path. They have loved me, corrected me, criticized me and picked me up; they have fixed my crown and made me realize that we all need to have women who speak words of wisdom into our lives.  4. a) As a young woman in senior management where your contribution makes a difference in decision making, what does this role mean to you and other women as well as younger girls watching you? I believe anyone of us can become. We can succeed, however, you choose to define success. This has turned out to be the greatest gift I could have given myself. As women, we often have many things to prove to ourselves, one of which is that we can live our lives fearlessly. I have since learnt that failure is a part of success. A lot can be learned when plans go awry. So now I encourage young girls and women to go ahead and fail. The world looks different from the ground. You can never fail if you refuse to lose, especially if you have the necessary self-awareness. I call this turning your wounds into wisdom. b) Any three lessons on leadership you have learnt so far worth sharing? 5. Tell us what role has each of the following aspects played in your career life-giving brief real-life experiences? 6. If you were to choose values that are most important to you that shape the way you work and live, what would they be and why?  7. When you think about women breaking the glass ceilings and their space up the corporate ladder, what does the future look like? For me, the future is innovative, with both men and women. We are raising young boys and girls and I believe that these are the people who are going to change the game and do more than we’ve achieved. Mine is to encourage women out here as we emphasize that the future is female, we need to ensure that we create gender equality all around us such that we can all co-exist and do amazing things together for the future! Any parting shot? Stay true to who you are. It doesn’t matter who is for you and who isn’t. What matters is that you believe in yourself. As a woman evolving every minute and second, I am always and constantly reminding myself of the importance of being in touch with who I am. Accept who I am as I look forward to becoming. I would encourage my younger sisters not to shy away from those uncomfortable conversations. Realize that everything does happen with a reason and a purpose. I have outgrown so many things, people, places and spaces, and that have been the curves for me. To learn, unlearn, relearn among the many things in this life. You are, always will be for a reason. Keep going. About the writers: Esther is a writer, editor, and communication professional in Kenya while Patience Nyange is a Chevening Scholar with a Masters Degree in International Public Relations and Global Communication Management from Cardiff University. Prior to joining Cardiff University, Patience served as an Assistant Director at the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR). Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam