Robert Wanjala, the father to self-confessed serial killer Masten Wanjala has appealed to the government for help in burying his son. He was speaking at his home in Bungoma on Friday, hours after news of his son’s lyching broke. “Ningeomba tu hata serikali wanisaidie kwa sababu mimi sijiwezi, sina nyuma wala mbele, ningeomba tu wanisaidie, baada ya shugli kuisha, mtoto wangu waniletee mimi mwenyewe nizike,” Mr Wanjala told Citizen TV. He said he  received news that his son had been spotted at Mukhweya and lynched by a mob but was too sad to go to the scene. “Nilipata huzuni , unajua alikuwa mtoto yangu, na hikuwa kupenda kwake, Ilikuwa kupenda kwa mama yake,” Mr. Wanjala said, appearing to  blame Wanjala’s mum for the person the boy became. Mr Wanjala says he blames his ex-wife for his son’s poor up-bringing, hours after the 20-year-old boy who had slipped police custody in Nairobi was spotted by school kids who raised alarm. He claimed that when Masten was taken home by detectives from the DCI who were retracing his crime scenes, he begged his father for forgiveness, saying his mum had introduced him into it. “Akaniambia, baba, naomba msamaha, nimekuharibia jina, unisamehe tu, mimi nikasema baba mimi sina abaya na wewe,”  Mr Wanjala told Citizen Digital. “Akaniambia ati mama yangı ndio alinipeleka kwa hii maneno, hata nikikufa, nitakufa kwa jina ya mama yangu,” Masten according to detectives, confessed to the brutal killing of more than 10 children. In subsequent investigations, he would lead detectives across the country to various locations where he committed the murder and buried the bodies. Mr. Wanjala said he only got to meet his son sometime in 2017. Wanjala was 18 then and was brought to his father’s house by his mum. “Akaniambia, ndiyo hutyu mtoto wako,” According to Mr Wanjala, Masten did not appear to have gone to school. He neither had school uniform nor books. His mum was also unable to produce his transfer. In addition, the 18-year-old was sporting an unusual hairstyle, lines criss-crossing his scalp. “Mtoto alikuwa amechora kichwa… amechora kichwa… ilikuwa 2017, nikamuuliza mama yake hii ni shule gani inakubai mtoto shuleni akiwa hivi,” he added. Mr Wanjala says he then intervened, took Masten to a barber where he got his hair cut,  and then booked him into a school. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam