Deputy President William Ruto has continued with his onslaught on public officials whom he claims are behind the high cost of fuel in the country. DP Ruto says there are corrupt public officials benefiting from the high fuel costs and is demanding they be arrested and prosecuted. Ruto further blamed the surge in fuel prices on some of the government policies currently in place like price controls and allocations to oil marketers. “Decisions amongst them to ‘gift’ Ksh.12/litre to private companies causing the punitive fuel costs while cartels rake super profits must be reversed as soon as possible and all corrupt public officials involved/benefiting prosecuted,” said Ruto in a tweet on Tuesday. He added.” Price controls must be removed  for competition, to lower prices.” DECISIONS amongst them to 'gift' sh12/litre to PRIVATE companies causing the PUNITIVE fuel costs while cartels rake SUPER profits must be reversed ASAP and all CORRUPT public officials involved/benefiting PROSECUTED.Price controls must be REMOVED for COMPETITION to lower prices. Also Read: — William Samoei Ruto, PhD (@WilliamsRuto) October 12, 2021  According to the latest costings of fuel by the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA), oil marketers are raking in Ksh.12.39 from each litre of fuel sold in assured suppliers margins from the fuel pricing formula. Price controls were introduced by the government in December 2010 as a counter measure to deal with the then high fuel prices which were largely a factor of bloated crude costs in the international market. On Monday, the DP said unscrupulous petrol businessmen were using the Petroleum Ministry to manipulate the prices of the essential commodity to boost their profits. He wondered why the cost of petrol in Kenya was higher than in Uganda, a landlocked country that relies on Kenya for its petroleum imports. “By protecting the cartels and aiding a few companies to make super-profits, the state Department of Petroleum is hurting Kenyans,” he said. He called for the liberalisation of the petroleum market to cushion Kenyans from greedy businessmen. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam