National Super League newbie Transmara Sugar are keen to impress in their maiden campaign in the Kenyan second-tier league after gaining promotion by virtue of clinching the FKF Division One Zone B on Sunday. Mara won Zone B after ending their season on 59 points, a point ahead of bitter rivals Luanda Villa. Mara as they are famously known by their Narok fan base joined other new boys Naivas Football Club who also made the cut for the second tier after being declared Zone A champions in September following their narrow 3-2 win against Ruiru Hot Stars on the final day of the season. Mara technical director and former international Bonface Ambani says their primary objective will be to maintain their status in the NSL as they plot to build a team that will challenge for promotion to the FKF-Premier League in the future. “I know we are a small team from Narok and no one has ever heard of us in the upper echelons of Kenyan football before our promotion on Sunday. “I believe we have what it takes to remain in the league as we plan for a future in which we can challenge for the title and subsequent promotion.” Also Read: Ambani’s contribution to the team’s trailblazing success last season was invaluable as they will be the first team from Narok County to grace big-time Kenyan football. Ambani who spoke to Citizen Digital on phone expressed his delight for having played an integral role in the team’s successes last term while expressing his confidence that they will stage a decent show in their debut season. “I’m beyond delighted for what we have achieved as a team in the short time that I have been with them. I must admit when they approached me to help them out, they were not sure if I could agree to their request. However, I knew that with the experience I have after playing both in the local and international leagues I could help where I can and I’m happy that we have managed to achieve something special at last.” Mara will make their NSL bow against giants Shabana at Awendo Green Stadium on November 7 while Naivas will take on sophomores Mully Children’s Family (MCF) at Ruaraka grounds on the same day.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam