The World Bank Group now sees the Kenyan economy expanding by a higher five per cent this year. This in contrast to a lower projection of 4.5 per cent, an outlook posted at the end of June. The new projection is contained in the multi-lateral lender’s October projections for economies in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) which were published on Wednesday. The greater projection for growth in Kenya has been anchored on the observed broad-based rebound to economic activity. “This positive outlook reflects improvements in construction, education, ICT and real estate sectors. Inflation remains contained near the Central Bank objective, and monetary policy continues to support growth,” the report notes. Nevertheless, the World Bank predicts slower growth into the medium term with Kenya’s GDP estimated to grow by an average 4.8% in 2022 and 2023 in contrast to a higher outlook of five per cent previously. Also Read: Across the region, the World Bank expects most economies in SSA to step out of recession with average growth estimated at 3.3 per cent, a higher projection that 2.3 per cent in April. Growth is seen to be anchored on elevated commodity prices, the relaxation of stringent measures to contain the COVID-19 pandemic and recovery in global trade. Non-resource rich countries such as Kenya are expected to grow at a faster rate compared to peers. Even so, the World Bank still sees headwinds to the recovery including greater public debt levels whose rise preceded the global health crisis and inflation as food and fuel costs rise. The greater debt levels are expected to limit fiscal space blocking many economies from obtaining supplementary resources to affirm the comeback. Kenya’s debt levels are for instance expected to hit 69.2 per cent of GDP by the end of 2021 from 65.8 per cent at the end of 2020. The World Bank however sees inequalities in vaccine supply as the greatest danger to the recovery of the SSA as it warns of a two-track recovery which places advanced economies on a better footing. In comparison, the IMF expects the Kenyan economy to rebound by 6.7 per cent while global ratings agency Standards and Poors ($&P) sees growth at a lower 4.4 per cent. Meanwhile, the National Treasury and the Central Bank Of Kenya (CBK) see 2021 growth at 6.2 and 6.1 per cent respectively. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam