Self-confessed serial killer Masten Wanjala has been beaten to death by a mob at the Mukhweya village, Bungoma, just days after he escaped police custody in Nairobi, reports say. The area chief Boniface Ndiera confirmed the incident saying he had received a phone call from one of the residents who claimed that Wanjala had been spotted. “Kuna watoto walikuwa wanaenda shule walimuona na wakamtambua na wakakimbia kwa polisi,” Mr Ndiera told Citizen Digital. On realising that his cover had been blown, Wanjala reportedly took to his heels, with scores of local residents hot at his wake. According to reports, he then dashed into a neighbour’s home and locked himself inside as a mob that was baying for his blood gathered. “Wananchi waliokuwa na hamaki walivunja mlango na wakamtoa nje and within two seconds.. walikuwa wamemuua tayari,” the area chief added. Wanjala escaped from custody at the Jogoo Road Police Station on October 13 where he was being held. According to a police report on the incident, it is the officer who reported on duty at 7am on Wednesday who noticed that Wanjala was missing. “This was noticed when they were taking over the report office and cell sentry duties. They informed the D/ocs who was in the report office minuting cases in the OB,” reads the report. “The deputy OCS informed the OCPD Buruburu and raised alarm and the area was combed inorder to re arrest the prisoner.” It remains unclear how the 20-year-old suspect, who was set to take plea on Wednesday, October 13, managed to slip from custody. Meanwhile, three police officers have been arrested for allegedly aiding the escape of self-confessed serial killer Masten Millimo Wanjala. Police Inspector Philip Mbithi and Police Constables Boniface Mutuma and Precious Mwende all of Jogoo Police Station are in custody. The three, who were arrested by their colleagues from the Nairobi Regional Criminal Investigations Office are expected in court. They will be charged with aiding escape from lawful custody and neglect of official duty contrary to section 124 and 128 of the Penal code respectively.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam