The Customer Service Week 2021 was here and gone again with a very compelling theme, ‘Power of Service.’ It was celebrated from 4th to the 8th day of October 2021. This is a yearly event that reminds us who is really the owner of our businesses as the customer is key in ensuring business continuity. This year we celebrated both external and the always forgotten internal customer. Employees, who customers face, are almost always forgotten by brands that do not realize these are the ground soldiers who understand the terrain of what businesses offer. This year, the focus is to celebrate and reward these drivers of good experiences in our businesses particularly those who have to persistently drive our brand from the rougher terrain of facing different customer personalities vis a vis not always well thought products and services. As the COVID-19 pandemic bites more into revenues for most businesses, organizations with a powerful service delivery culture have actually been able to withstand or even grow further despite the challenges. Big organizations that strategically delivered great service have actually continued to grow and get more brand loyalty unlike the shaky ones that quickly lost their clients in the midst of the pandemic. Also Read: What did the growing brands do? Great leadership is always the mother of a good culture. So often I hear a lot of business leads asking me to train their teams to understand the value and instruments of a good organizational culture that is mostly customer centric. An organization that realizes that the business is fed by its customers is bound to fail. First it must take care of its most valuable customer and that is the internal customer, the employee. Brands that are surviving the pandemic quickly planned for the employee both in safeguarding the future of the business and also in creating safety. Working from home became the norm and most people learnt the joy of working from a personalized environment. This meant a very fast shift from the brick and mortar model and everyone created their lovely corners. These businesses realized that they had to facilitate the employees and quickly enhanced the access of business aspects to serve their external customers. How do we celebrate our customers facing staff? The ‘Power of Service’ theme seeks to celebrate those who are interacting with customers at all customer touchpoints so the internal customer becomes a key driver in ensuring brands stay alive. Safety – The first duty of every organization during this pandemic in 2021 is to ensure that the employees are safe from the pandemic as they strive to keep the business afloat. This means that most businesses ensure their staff were safe and safeguarded during the pandemic. Offering medical care in case of infections and deep support during grief in case of losing staff is another form of support. Recognition – Ensuring staff are recognized and rewarded during the pandemic while working in their personal offices may be a challenge to most organizations which are not agile enough to change the traditional reward methods. Though monetary reward is good there are other incentives e.g. trainings and mentorship for growth and capacity development in the future. This year, let us celebrate the customer facing staff by recognizing that they are a great part of the business brand and revenue drivers.  By Pauline Warui – Chief Executive Officer of the East Africa Customer Care Centre, ( EACCC) Nairobi. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam