Kenya’s Rayton “Boom Boom” Okwiri hopes to eventually fight for the WBF, IBO and WBC titles after stopping Uganda’s John Serunjogi in the eighth round of a scheduled 10-round non-title middleweight fight at the Millennium Towers in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. It was Okwiri’s 8th consecutive victory, and will back to the ring on November 26, to fight an opponent yet to be confirmed. Okwiri who has been training in America before the bout, is already looking forward to the next fight. “I thank the fans for their support, I’m happy with my performance. I will now take a short break at home and start preparing for my next fight in Dar. I’ve really missed my country, but there is no much time to rest. “I’ll go back to my training camp in the USA after my December fight but I’m asking Kenyans to pray for me to attain my dreams, for the run is good thus far” said Okwiri. The promoter of the seven-bout card in Dar, Donhalla Shemuni was impressed by Okwiri’s textbook show and said he wants him to vie for Africa Boxing Union super-middleweight title in Dar es Salaam. “Okwiri boxed very well, even the Tanzanians are fascinated by his performance and they want to see him again in action,” said Shemuni. The Kenyan boxer punished his Ugandan opponent despite his height advantage, and a snapping left punch in the third round dropped the Ugandan to the canvas for a referee’s count but he pulled himself up in time. Serunjogi survived another scare in the sixth round, this time round the referee ruling he slipped into the canvas not out of Okwiri’s punches. Then came the end in the eighth round. Okwiri piled on pressure on the Ugandan who hardly troubled him, showering him with neat left and right punches on the face. A screaming left cross towards the end of the 8th round landed on Serunjogi’s face, sending him to the ropes and he almost made another visit to the canvas. The referee then moved closer to a dazed and groggy Serunjogi who had difficulty supporting himself, thus waved it off for a TKO victory for the 35-year-old Okwiri. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam