Award winning Kenyan boyband Sauti Sol has announced the next phase of the band’s musical career that will see the quartet take on solo projects. The foursome announced their first international residence in an open letter to fans on Thursday, saying the start of their UK tour will herald the beginning of their careers as solo artists. “This tour is the beginning of our journey being “Alone-Together.” It is a wonderful journey in which we are self- actualising by showcasing our personal strengths and characters as the artists who came together to form Sauti Sol,” the letter says. “”Alone-Together” is the mantra we formed to define the unique next chapter as brothers. It ties with our natural progression of self-growth, while still being a single unit,” Fans, apparently bamboozled by the letter’s ‘overabundance of English,’ took to the comment section, wary that the beloved crooners were breaking up. “Sheesh! This scared me for a moment! Wheeew! Thought you guys were breaking up,” Marura Mjambo wrote on Twitter. While another fan, Joy Ngoiri wrote: “I thought this was bad news!Had us in the first half with the ‘alone together’ phrase.” But according to Sauti Sol, the Alone-Together journey will be a four-part musical and visual art series that will seek to showcase who the individual artists are; four great parts that make one iconic whole. Phew! The band, which formed in 2005, claims that the pandemic inspired the Alone-together concept, which was born out of “deep reflections that we experienced as individuals and as a group.” “Thus, each of us shall enter into our alone phase with a single release by December 2021. This shall closely be followed by releases of full projects whose dates shall be announced in due time,” the boy band said in the open letter. Bien Aime, who has taken on the moniker The African King of Bald Men, will kick off the group’s  Alone-Together phase with his first solo song, a joint effort with Jazz Maestro Aaron Rimbui titled  Bald men Anthem, due out on Friday, October 8. Polycarp Otieno a.k.a Fancy Fingers will follow up with Father studies, Austin Chimano with Heavy is the Crown and Delvin Savara with Savage Level. All projects will be released on Exodus Entertainment Sol Generation and distributed by Ingrooves. These are masterfully crafted musical and visual wOrks that are sincere representations of us as world class artists,” the band added. “With each release, you, our fans; old and new, young and old, will get to experience each of our unique talents, and perhaps get greater insight as to why we are 4 phenomenal parts that make 1 iconic whole.” The band will release the next group album in 2022, as per the letter. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam