Proposed fuel tax cuts are expected to blow a Ksh.39.3 billion hole to revenues collected by the National Treasury. This is according to an analysis of the implication of the proposed tax cuts by the National Assembly Committee on Finance and National Planning. According to the scenario analysis, the exchequer will lose the greatest sum of Ksh.22.63 billion from the halving of the rate of VAT on all three fuel products from eight to four per cent. Meanwhile, Ksh.11.98 billion will be lost from the reduction of the petroleum development levy to Ksh.2.90 from Ksh.5.40 at present. Additionally, the State will is set to lose another Ksh.4.69 billion from the halving of VAT on LPG gas to eight per cent from a greater 16 per cent currently. If adopted, the proposal will force Treasury’s hand in lowering overall spending across the ongoing 20201/22 fiscal year to seal the void created by vacated fuel taxes. Also Read: Oil marketing companies (OMCs) and suppliers are also set to part with billions should the government cut margins as proposed by the Committee. The report proposes that the suppliers take a Ksh.3 haircut in margins across the board. This would see supplier margins in the supply of petrol, diesel and kerosene come down to Ksh.9.39, Ksh.9.36 each for the three fuel products. Both the National Treasury and the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) have fought off lower tax rates in a move to bolster domestic revenue mobilization. “Before we yield to pressure, we have to look at the revenue base and why we put such taxes. For instance, when it comes to fuel, we have a road maintenance fuel levy fee. If we do away with that, then expect Kenyans to ride on pot-holes,”Treasury Chief Administrative Secretary Nelson Gaichuhie said last week. Fuel taxes and levies account for an estimated 14 per cent of the annual national government revenues meaning a reduction will require either expenditure cuts or increased borrowing to bridge the financing gap. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam