Thika Queens Chairman Fredrick Chege has urged the newly acquired Turkish Hakkarigucu Spor striker Mwanahalima ”Dogo” Adam to maintain discipline if she is to succeed. The long-serving Harambee Starlets forward penned a one -year loan deal with the Turkish Women Premier league side two days ago after she impressed the scouts while playing for the National team (Harambee Starlets). In an interview with Citizen Digital, Fred Chege, the chairman of her immediate former club Thika Queens hailed the move urging the striker to maintain high level of discipline on and off the pitch as this will determine her stay in Europe. “First I want of congratulate her for securing the deal; at least it’s a big move for her. As a team we were disappointed after her initial deal with Israel side Maccabi Holon failed due to lack of sponsors but now God has heard her prayers,” she said. “Dogo really impressed the club’s scouts when playing for Harambee Starlets, they requested her to send her footage and they really like her prowess.” Being a loan deal, it means she is still our player at Thika Queens and what I can insist from her is hard work and discipline. She should be able to work extremely hard and maintain good discipline record for her. I can’t question anything on her discipline because it’s excellent – from the time we have had her in our team.  I have seen many players shutting their dreams due to poor discipline and I don’t want that to happen to our striker,” said Chege. Also Read: Dogo has sealed a six-month loan deal with the club, which takes part in the country’s Women Premier League, last December but her stay lasted only few weeks before she was released alongside other foreign players, after the club failed to obtain the International Transfer Certificate (ITC) from the respective countries and also failed to secure sponsorship making it hard to maintain the newly acquired players. Mwanahalima becomes the third player to ditch Thika Queens for greener pastures abroad, after Harambee Starlets skipper Dorcas Shikobe joined Lakatamia FC of Cyprus a month ago, a move which came shortly after Esse Akida also signed one year deal contract with Geek side PAOK Thessaloniki. In the recent past, Dogo represented Kenya in the 2018 Africa Women Cup of Nations (Awcon) qualifiers where Harambee Starlets lost to Equatorial Guinea. She was recently called up by Harambee Starlets tactician Charles Okere for the 2022 Awcon qualifiers where Kenya is scheduled to play against South Sudan in the first leg on October 20 and the return leg on October 24 at the Nyayo National Stadium. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam