ODM leader Raila Odinga was on Friday feted by the Hekima Kaka Society for his sacrifice in making Kenya a better country. The organisation, in a star-studded event that brought together Raila’s friends from across the continent said that Odinga had over the years,  displayed patriotism ,wisdom, perseverance and power. They say his decision to shake hands with president Uhuru Kenyatta brought hope to the country. Raila, who sat on a gold and red ‘throne’ with a footstool, wore a two-piece suit over a black animal skin cloak with the Kenyan flag’s colors on the heming, as well as a Kufi cap, which is synonymous with African chiefs, and a ceremonial spear. “Of course, my better half is here with me, she has been crowned the queen and I’m the king.. and she is sitting there in her throne,” Raila said as his wife who, too, sat on a gold and red ‘throne’, donning a ceremonial cloak and a cap, beamed. “I really look like Ceasar, sitting up here….,” Raila said, amid laughter, “ The robes that have been given to me make me feel very regal, and royal… I want to thank you really much for doing this,” The ODM leader continued, reiterating his motivation for doing what he does. “I’m a Pan-Africanist, but also an afro-optimist.. Pan-Africanists are basically those who believe in Africa  and the ability of the African people to develop Africa,” Raila said. “I’m a student of Kwame Nkuruma, Julius Nyerere, Milton Obote,  Samora Machel, Nelson Mandela,… those are the people who inspire me,” According to the leader of the ODM, Africa which is one of the poorest continents can only develop itself if it is united first. He recalled the late Kwame Nkurumah, who famously declared, “Seek first the political kingdom, and everything else will be built upon it,” while praising Africa’s unity. According to Raila, Nkurumah was opposed by among others, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere who favoured gradual unification of Africa. “Others including Mwalimu Julius Nyerere opposed him and wanted gradual unity that would start with regional blocks and slowly graduate to an African Union government,”  Raila added. Nkurumah would be vindicated later, according to Raila, after the late Mwalimu Nyerere agreed in a lecture, that Nkurumah had been right all along about the need for immediate African unity. The ODM leader also said it was paradoxical for Africa to be so poor, yet have the most resources of any continent on Earth. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam