New Harambee Stars head coach Engin Firat, lost his second consecutive international match when he was subjected to a 1-0 defeat by Mali at the Nyayo National Stadium which ended Kenya’s 2022 World Cup dreams. The Eagles of Mali solitary goal was scored in the 55th minute by Ibrahim Kone who scored a hat-trick in Morocco in the first leg. It seemed like Stars would have taken a point  at home after a fine display in the first have that ended 0-0. Firat made changes in the team that was thrashed 5 -0 by Mali last Thursday in Rabat, Morocco. The fine display in the first half was believed to be brought by the four changes that he made in the starting eleven. The Turkish decided to rest Joash Onyango, Lawrence Juma and Henry Mejja, and brought in Duke Abuya, Boniface Muchiri and Abdalla Hassan. Tusker custodian Brian Bwire replaced injured Ian Otieno. Bwire was picked ahead of Farouk Shikalo who replaced Otieno in the last match and it’s believed the KMC man was dropped for the mistake that led to the fifth goal. Also Read: Mali coach Mohammed Magassouba made only two changes from the line-up that started last week by bringing in Mamadu Fofana and Diadie Samassekou. The latter would have given the visitors the lead in the dying minutes of the first half but his effort hit the crossbar with Johnstone Omurwa clearing the free ball for a corner. Mali tops Group E of the World Cup qualifiers with 10 points, two above Uganda who beat Rwanda 1-0 in Kampala while Kenya and Rwanda have two and one respectively. Mali boasts of seven goals now, six of them scored against Kenya, as they beat Rwanda by a solitary goal in the same town before drawing Uganda 0-0 in Kampala. Firat, made only two changes in the game by replacing Duke Abuya with former Kariobangi Sharks forward Eric Kapaito in the 72nd minute – with Henry Mejja of Tusker replacing his club mate Boniface Muchiri in the 78th minute. Magassouba made three changes bringing in Kouame N’Guessan in place of Amadou Haidara, Adama Traore was rested for Senou Coulibaly and El Bilal Toure replaced lethal Ibrahim Kone. Kenya next play Uganda away in Kampala on 13th November before hosting Rwanda in Nairobi three days later in the last group E match. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam