Gor Mahia first vice-captain Philemon Otien says they are ready to stop their CAF Confederations Cup second preliminary round opponents Al-Ahly Merowe of Sudan. The two sides collide this Friday in Suez Egypt in the first leg of the round two Caf Confederations Cuup preliminary clash and Otieno says Gor are keen to have a solid footing ahead of the rematch in Nairobi. The aggregate winner from this clash will advance to the group stages of the competition. According to Otieno, they are, however not underestimating the might of the Sudanese but will be relying on their head coach Mark Harrison’s instructions to stop their opponents. ‘’They (Al Ahly) are equally a good team but we are optimistic we shall stop them. Exiting at this early stage is not in any of our plans this season,’’ said Otieno. The Kenyan right-back told Citizen Digital that the team is in high spirits and are going for nothing short of three points in Egypt. Also Read: ‘’We are going for a win in this first leg before sealing the deal a week later here in Nairobi. They have no bigger advantage over us since both teams have been featuring at the continental level.’’ Gor Mahia got to this stage after they were exempted from the round one of the preliminaries due to their continental ranking. On the other hand the Sudanese side had to play their South Sudanese counterparts Atlabara whom they beat 4-0 aggregate to book a date with the Kenyan giants. The match initially slated for Khartoum was moved to Suez in Egypt after CAF sanctioned the use of Sudanese pitches for a match of this calibre. This is the first time since 2017 when Gor is starting their continental assignments in the second tier-competition. They had been regulars in the first-tier competition (The CAF Champions League) since 2017 before Tusker FC dethroned them as champions last term. KÓgalo go into this match barely a week after FIFA slapped them with another transfer ban over non-payment of their former Ghanaian player Jackson Owusu who is reportedly demanding Sh.3 million from the Kenyan giants. Gor Mahia sporting Director Lordvic Aduda last week said they are focused on the AL-Ahly Merowe match and will give a statement on the ban later. Even so, most of the recently recruited players are out of the CAF Confederations Cup until a later date if they manage to stop the Sudanese in the two-leg fixture. Some of the names of the new signing have reportedly not been forwarded to CAF ahead of the lapsed deadline. Striker Benson Omalla is however reportedly in the traveling party and will feature in this competition. His return after a stint in Sweden is a big boost to KÓgalo. He scored twice as Gor beat KCB 2-1 in their season opener. The local giants are expected to jet out any time this week to honour the first leg before hosting their opponents a week later at the Nyayo National Stadium.  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam