The government, through the Ministry of Agriculture, has officially began the rollout of the 4-K Clubs of Kenya in schools across the country. Implementation of the 4-K Clubs comes following approval by the Cabinet and launch by President Uhuru Kenyatta in June this year. The 4-K Club acronym stands for Kuungana, Kufanya, Kusaidia Kenya. The rebranded 4-K Clubs not only promote agricultural activities, but also promote environmental conservation, citizenship, civic education & leadership, STEM, and food & nutrition. In July, the Ministry of Education issued a directive to all County Directors of Education to ensure successful rollout of 4-K Clubs and Young Farmers Clubs in all schools in their jurisdictions. Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) in the Agriculture Ministry Anne Nyaga continues to spearhead the sensitization stage of the program across the country. Also Read: The sensitization exercise, which is on its third day, is carried out by 12 teams composed of officials from the Ministry of Agriculture, Education, and other stakeholder organizations. “The role of the sensitization phase is to target and inform county leadership in all counties. Leaders involved at the County level include Regional Commissioners, County Commissioners, Sub-County Commissioners, and partner departments within county governments,” said CAS Ann Nyaga in Nyeri County. Sensitization and formation of county committees have already taken place in several counties, including Siaya, Kakamega, Kisumu, Bungoma, and Vihiga. According the Ms. Nyaga, teams are currently on the ground in several other counties including Samburu, Wajir, Turkana, Taita Taveta, Kitui, and Isiolo, and in the coming days the sensitization efforts will be completed in all 47 counties. Last month President Uhuru Kenyatta said Kenya was working on increasing the number of young people receiving school-based agricultural education and growing the uptake of digital agricultural solutions among farmers. “In order to overcome these negative perceptions and to show our children and youth the nobility and profitability of agriculture, we are elevating the place of agriculture in our schools by revitalizing the 4-K-Clubs,” said the Head of State. He was speaking when he hosted this year’s virtual African Green Revolution Forum (AGRF) summit at State House, Nairobi. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam