Religious leaders in Taita Taveta have raised an alarm over the increased teenage pregnancies in the County. According to District Health Information System statistics presented by County sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) focal person Violet Mkamburi, close to 2,000 cases have been reported between January and August this year. “As we are speaking 1,929 under age girls became pregnant between January – August 2021 compared to 1,428 in 2020,” she said. Speaking during a consultative engagement of religious leaders organised by Youth for Sustainable Development (YSD) in partnership with Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO), Liberty Christian Church Pastor Robert Mwangala emphasized that involvement of religious leaders in addressing this worrying trend should be considered as a strategic move in a campaign aimed at preventing teen pregnancies. “Religious leaders have a big role to play to help in solving this Vice that is continuing to be a challenge here in our county” He insisted . County Director of Youth, Sports, Gender, Culture and Social Services Mr. Wallace Mwaluma on the other hand noted that multisectoral commitment is needed for partners to succeed in this war. Also Read: However Human Rights activists have largely accused the county government of Taita Taveta of ignoring the rising cases by failing to push for policies that will actualize on building and sustaining community awareness on adolescent sexual and reproductive health. “Situations such as growing socioeconomic, hunger and health crisis emerged to be a major contributing factor to the rise of teenage pregnancies that the County has failed to control .” Agness Mwadime an activist said . Youth for Sustainable Development (YSD)National Chair Silvester Asumwa, reiterated that voluntary objective integration of various partners with those of different faith-based organizations is a very important ingredient in the campaign against such a vice . Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam