While a sombre mood engulfs the nation due to the gruesome murder of the world 10,000m bronze medallist Agnes Tirop, details have emerged on how the athlete was in a strained relationship with her husband. Tirop was allegedly stabbed to death by her husband Ibrahim Rotich alias Manu, who police arrested on Thursday in Mombasa and remains the prime suspect in the murder case. According to Tirop’s family, their daughter suffered in the hands of the suspect who is now in police custody as he waits to be arraigned in court. In a clear indication that all was not rosy between the two, Everline Chepngetich, Tirop’s younger sister narrated her last moments with her sister prior to her lifeless body being found on her house in Iten with stabs on the neck. “I found him (Ibrahim) assaulting Agnes after I had forced myself inside the house. He actually slapped her and she fell to the ground where she even injured herself on the cheek,” a devastated Chepngetich recalled. Vincent Tirop, the father of the slain athlete disowned the marriage between her daughter and Ibrahim. Also Read: “This man (Ibrahim) took Agnes from school for about six months when she was in Form Two. I even reported the incident to the police. He even had us arrested,” Tirop revealed. According to Tirop’s brothers the suspect has been depending on their sister’s sweat as it emerges that some of the property owned by the athlete are registered in the name of the estranged husband. “Agnes used to give him everything, supporting him financially, even things we as a family we could not get. We hope everything that Agnes owned will be transferred to our parents,” said his brothers. It has emerged that Tirop was on the verge of giving up on his relationship with the suspected killer, and was “going to take some of his personal effects” only to die before the intended separation. Athletics Kenya president Jackson Tuwei while addressing mourners at Tirop’s home on Friday urged athletes to be keen while investing. “As a federation we are very saddened with the loss of Agnes. This is a girl I have personally seen grow in her career. I am also aware that the house she was living in Iten she built it herself. She has also built some houses in Kesses which hosts Moi University students and she was in the process of building another one. I hope she registered these properties under her name,” Tuwei said. Meanwhile, just hours after the arrest of Ibrahim, his family has asked for forgiveness over the heinous act. “We are grateful since he (Ibrahim) has been arrested so that he can reveal what is disturbing him. As a family he has never opened up on any challenges that he might have faced. We are also very shocked on the unfortunate turn of events,” said Winrose Cherotich, Ibrahim’s sister. Already a burial committee has been formed and comprises members of family, Athletics Kenya and the County Government of Nandi. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam