Gor Mahia assistant coach Sammy Omollo ‘Pamzo’ says their CAF Confederations Cup campaign is far from over despite a convincing 3-1 away win over Sudanese side Al Ahly Merowe., away in Egypt. According to Pamzo, the return match will call for seriousness since football is about full time results. The former Gor Mahia player says they will not entertain  laxity in the rematch and will be targeting a win to advance to the next round. “Football can be messy. You cannot predict the results until it is full time. We will only need to be cautious and avoid laxity,’’ explained ‘Pamzo’. The return leg will be played on Saturday October 10 at the Nyayo National Stadium and Pamzo says Merowe is a good team which cannot be under-rated. ‘’Our opponents are so good and in the first half, they almost demolished us and even became the first to score. We had to change our tactics in the second half to claim the victory.’’ Gor will be facing their traditional arch-rivals AFC Leopards in a mid-week league clash at Kasarani on Wednesday beginning 3pm Also Read: The coach has at the same time allayed fears that midfielder Sydney Wahongo who was stretched off in an ambulance and rushed to hospital could be out for long saying the doctors have given him a clean bill of health to be back in two weeks. Wahongo suffered a strained muscle injury after overstretching while attempting to clear the ball. ‘’The quick action by the on-ground medical personnel was laudable and Wahongo got quick medical attention. We are assessing his situation but he will definitely miss the return leg,’’ explained Pamzo. A win in the return leg will propel Gor to the second round where they are likely to meet Tusker FC should the Kenya’s CAF Champions League representatives lose to Zamalek away in Egypt. ‘Pamzo’ says the draw will, however, determine who their next opponents will be. ‘’There is a possibility of even playing Tusker in the next round but this is not guaranteed. We will have to wait and see the results of the return legs of both the CAF Champions League and the CAF Confederations Cup ties.’’ ‘’Pamzo’ says their happiness will be to cruise to the group stage where they will benefit from monetary grants from the continental football governing body. Last season, Gor missed the group stage courtesy of a 2-2 draw with Zambia’s Napsa Stars away in Zambia after losing the first leg to the Zambians 1-0 in Nairobi in the first leg. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam