The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has honoured 31 teachers from across the country as it marks this year’s World Teachers’ Day. Speaking during the celebrations in Nairobi, TSC Chief Executive Officer Dr. Nancy Macharia said the 31 teachers had “consistently demonstrated exemplary performance in teaching, management and effective delivery of the curriculum for quality education.” Some of them were feted for beating all odds and shining in various aspects of their career. “I wish to state that the process of identifying the teachers to be rewarded today has been done in strict conformity to the TSC Performance Recognition, Reward and Sanction Policy Framework. All the 31 teachers will be feted based on the rewards system outlined in this TSC policy – which stresses on meritocracy and detailed due diligence in recognising staff,” she said. “I wish to state that we are not in any way suggesting that the 31 teachers are the only remarkable teachers we have in the practice. In fact, this number is just the tip of the ice berg. And we, at the TSC, will keep finding more ways to ensure all our teachers feel recognised and appreciated for their work.” The TSC boss said the commission would go ahead to recommend the outstanding tutors for recognition at various levels in line with Government Policy. Also Read: Among the 31 teachers is Mr. Peter Tabichi of Keriko Mixed secondary school who won the Global Teacher of the Year in 2018. Also on the list is Mr. Eric Ademba of Asumbi Girls school who won the African Union Continental Teacher of the Year in 2019 and, Jane Kimiti of Othaya Girls secondary won the African Union Continental Teacher of the Year (2020). Meanwhile, a moment of silence was held in honour of teachers who succumbed to COVID-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic. According to TSC, 90 teachers have succumbed to COVID-19 over the last one year. “Allow me to first of all celebrate posthumously our Ninety (90) Heroes and Heroines who succumbed to COVID-19 over the last year, some of them in the middle of their tireless efforts to ensure learning in our schools was back on track,” she said. Dr. Macharia noted that all teachers have so far received at least the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, urging all tutors to purpose to get fully vaccinated. The event was attended by education stakeholders and members of teachers unions. List of the 31 teachers honoured by TSC on 2021 World Teachers Day:  Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam