Robert Matano has described Zamalek as one of the strongest teams in Africa but dismissed the idea that his Tusker FC champions will wear the underdog tag when they face off against the Egyptians. Tusker will host Zamalek in their second preliminary round fixture of the CAF Champions League at Nyayo Stadium on Saturday with a place in the lucrative group stages at stake. The two teams last met in 2005 when Tusker lost 4-1 on aggregate and Zamalek, who are the most decorated club for continental trophies, will start as hot favourites. “We are ready as Tusker to represent Kenya and make the country proud. We play Zamalek who are a really good team and champions of Africa but our intention is to win,” Matano said. North African teams have strong record at home but usually appear vulnerable playing on the road, and Matano believes they must capitalize on home advantage against Zamalek. “I don’t see why we shouldn’t win tomorrow; we’ll have all the support, we’re used to this weather and have been playing on this pitch. In our minds we know it’s possible to reach the group stages and that’s what we want to do. Also Read: “Football is about mental strength and for us we can’t afford to be scared of the opponent. We are ready to go,” Matano said. Matano revealed he has a near full squad missing only Teddy Osok who is injured while new signings among them goalkeeper Patrick Matasi, Clyde Senaji and defender Charles Momanyi are available. Tusker’s new signings made particularly great impression in the previous round of the competition against Arta Solar and Matano believes they have now fully settled at the club. “Most of them have been with us for three months now and you can already see the impact they have. They played a very big role when we faced Arta Solar and I feel we’ve integrated them well. “Credit to them because for me they are giving their best and are showing they want to be (connected to) Tusker. They’re going to deliver for us,” Matano offered. Tusker captain Eugene Asike said they will fancy their chances and gave a positive assessment of the quality in their own side ahead of the showdown. “It’s a good challenge because they’re a good side with quality players and a lot of experience but once we walk out onto the pitch it will be 11 against 11. We have our work cut out and we must give our best when we go out there. “What’s important is we have to focus on what we want to do on the pitch as a team because we have our own strengths. If we’re able to do that tomorrow then I believe we’ll collect great results,” Asike said. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam