Deputy President Wiliam Ruto has slammed his political opponents, accusing them of attempting to discuss Kenyans’ future in boardrooms and hotels. The second-in-command who was accompanied by his allies on a tour of Nyahururu town on Saturday, asserted that Kenya needs a president who prioritizes job creation over protecting the wealth of the privileged. “Stop the contempt, stop the nonsense, even though we want a president who will protect some of the wealth some of us have, the citizens of Kenya want a president who will prioritise the creation of jobs for millions of Kenyans,” DP Ruto said. “Those of you out of contempt who think you can decide for the people of Kenyan in hotels by interviewing the people you want to sponsor, we want to tell you that we are waiting for you hapa kwa ground,”  DP Ruto added, appearing to refer to the recent meeting between the OKA and the Mt. Kenya Foundation. The Deputy President who was drumming up support for his 2022 presidential bid said that this time round, having helped President Uhuru clinch the top job in the past, he was keen on helping those on the bottom rungs of the economic ladder. “Vile nilisimama na Rais Uhuru Kenyatta mpaka akakuwa Rais, nitasimama na mama mboga mpaka biashara yake iinuke, nitasimama na hawa vijana ambao hawana kazi mpaka kazi yao ipatikane…” DP Ruto added. He also downplayed claims that the central region was warming to ODM leader Raila Odinga, who, despite not declaring an interest in the presidency, has been on countrywide tours, popularizing his “Azimio la Umoja” tag line. DP Ruto referred to Raila as a visitor to the Central Region, and purported to welcome him to the vote-rich region where he claims to be a resident. “Kwa sababu huyo ni mgeni hapa mlimani, mimi namwambia bwana kitendawili karibu mlimani, huku ndio kwetu, wakati haukuweko, tulijenga  njia ya Narumoru, before you arrived tulijenga TTI, na tumeunganisha stima” DP Ruto said. “Wewe sababu unatafuta google map ya kukuleta huku, mimi nakwambia karibu huku, sisi tumeshirikiana huku na tunapenda wageni,” During the tour, DP Ruto donated Ksh.1.5 million to 500 small businesses in the region to boost them. He also promised to allocate Ksh. 120 million per constituency every year should he be elected Kenya’s fifth president. “Leo tunatumia pesa ya kutoka mfuko yetu, lakini mwaka ujao, vile tunaweka pesa million 120 kwenye CDF, Tutaweka pesa ingine, millioni 120 kila constituency kila mwaka ya kusaidia wanabiashara wadogo waweze kufanya biashara,” Dp Ruto added. His allies, led by Kimani Ichungwa, claimed the government was planning to postpone the polls on the basis of a festering diplomatic conflict with Somalia “Nataka tuwaambie leo, wakenya wako tayari kwenda uchaguzi tarehe 9 Agosti mwaka ujao, musijaribu, wasidhubutu kuleta vita na nchi ya somalia ili kuahirisha uchaguzi,” the Kikuyu legistator said. “Ile pesa wanataka kupeleka kwa vita, walete tufanye bottom-up na hawa raia, ili watu wapate pesa mfukoni,” The Deputy president was accompanied by MPs Patrick Mariru (Laikipia West), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Rigathi Gachagua, (Mathira) Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Senator John Kinyua, and Laikipia East MP Amin Deddy. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam