Equity Bank teams overall head coach David Main is confident his charges will shrug off their weekend slump in the Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) against Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) at Makande Gymnasium in Mombasa. Equity Hawks saw their dominance in the Women Premier League come to an end following a 48-78 thumping by KPA ladies while complacency also saw their male counterparts suffer a 68-60 against KPA in the men’s league. Maina sees their latest struggles as a reality check that will help them revise their strategy ahead of the playoffs slated for December. “We struggled to match our opponents in many aspects. We have had a solid run this far but I’m happy that this result will get us rethinking on how we can rediscover our sharpness,” he told Citizen Digital. Former Morans head coach Carey “T9” Odhiambo who coaches the men’s team is adamant they have what it takes to challenge for the title this season if they can minimize high turnovers and poor short conversion that has characterized their play recently. “We need to work on many areas to be ready for the playoffs. Like today, we let them have many easy points due to our careless handling of the ball. Also Read: “That has to improve. We also need to make our shots to prevent unnecessary turnovers.” Elsewhere, Kenya Ports Authority head coach Anthony Ojukwu is bullish his side can challenge Equity Hawks for the Kenya Basketball Women’s Premier League title following their towering display against the bankers. Ojukwu whose side leapfrogged Hawks to the helm of the log after amassing 23 points was particularly impressed by his team’s ability to outplay the defending champions thanks to his switch of playing formations depending on the situation. “Today I was able to adjust my defense to be effective in two-on-one, one-on-two, lockdown and many more depending on the attacks they presented after every timeout. “I’m confident we can challenge them for the title if we can maintain our momentum.” His men’s team counterpart Sammy Kiki is confident his side can reclaim the title if they remain injury-free and also utilize their current momentum. “Our win against Equity was down to hard work and dedication from every player who graced the floor. “With time and more practice, we should challenge them to reclaim the title come postseason,” he added. Weekend Results Saturday Nairobi City Thunder 62-60 Blades KU Oryx 42-36 Eagle Wings Zetech 59-39 Strathmore UON Dynamites 57-42 Storms KU Oryx 49-44 ANU Coastal Queens 32-52 MMU Coastal Kings 67-69 ANU KPA 98-36 ANU Sunday KPA 78-44 Equity Hawks KPA 68-60 Equity Bank. Storms 36-88 Zetech KU Oryx 43-40 UON Dynamites Nairobi City Thunder 81-63 KU Pirates UON Terror 69-67 KCA University Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam