President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday presided over the opening of the Integrated Molecular Imaging and Hospitality Centre (IMIC) for Cancer treatment at the Kenyatta University Teaching Referral and Research centre (KUTTRH). The Head of State  and the First Lady Margaret Kenyatta joined among others, the Ministry of Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe and Prof. Olive Mugenda- the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of KUTTRH. The ultra-modern IMIC is the first of its kind in Kenya and the region, and was developed as part of government effort to expand access to cancer treatment in the country. The Hospitality Centre has a capacity to host up to 100 patients and their families during their stay at the Hospital “The centre is first of its kind in Kenya and Eastern African region,” President Uhuru Kenyatta said. “Patients will no longer have to travel to get accurate diagnosis and cancer care,” President Uhuru Kenyatta said that in the last eight years, his government has steered the country into a new reality where ever quality and affordable health care is available for all. “Today, we add another arrow in our quiver in the fight for Universal Heath Coverage, a priority for my administration as one of the  pillars of our Big Four Agenda,” President Kenyatta said. “This facility is one of its kind in a public hospital, it contains world class equipment that will help transform our national and regional response to the unyielding threat of cancer,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said patients to the facility will get full coverage at the facility, provided they have the NHIF. “This is the first time in our history that public hospitals are better than our private hospitals, this is the first time that we are going to see private hospitals referring patients to a public hospital,” CS Kagwe said. “All patients who come will get full coverage under the NHIF, meaning they won’t have to go back to their pockets provided they have got an NHIF card. According to CS Kagwe, the facility of its kind in Kenya will also charge equal or lesser than the amounts Kenyans have to cough when they travel abroad to seek specialised treatment. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam