Vihiga Queens assistant coach Boniface NyamuNyamuh says their preparations for the CAF Women’s Champions League slated for November 5 -19 in Cairo, Egypt, have been jeopardized by Harambee Starlets camp, with 10 of his players summoned for the national team duty. Starlets are gearing up for their first leg of the African Women Cup Of Nations (AWCON) qualifiers against Sudan on October 20  in Khartoum before hosting them in Nairobi four days later for the second leg encounter and Nyamunyamuh feels with 10 players away, the preparations cannot be the same again. “Ten players has joined the national team for the AWCON qualifiers which has affected our preparations. We had gathered some good momentum in training and the players were in good shape as a unit. I however believe they will keep the shape but of course there is a lot we cannot do properly without them,” he said. Jentrix Shikangwa, Terry Engesha, Janet Bundi, Maureene Achieng, Enez Mango (Captain), Lillian Awuor (goalkeeper), Marceline Odinga, Phoebe Owiti, Vivian Nasaka and Dorcas Neema have been called up by head coach Charles Okere. Vihiga Queens qualified for the continental extravaganza after beating Commercial Bank of Ethiopia 2-1 in Nairobi on September 9 in the final of Cecafa Women Club Championships to book the single ticket reserved for the region. NyamuNyamuh at the same time revealed that their attempt to sign Ugandan keeper Daisy Nakaziro has failed due to CAF rules barring players who featured for clubs in the qualifiers from switching to others heading to the Cairo tourney at least for now. Also Read: “We had already approached Uganda keeper Nakaziro and we were finalizing the deal before CAF released the statement. Daisy is a good keeper who guided her country in finishing third in the CECAFA qualifiers last month and caught my attention.” Vihiga will open their campaign against Mamelodi of South Africa on November 6 at the Cairo Military Academy Stadium, a day after the opening match pitting Wadi Degla and AS Mande at the Cairo 30 Stadium. The Boniface NyamuNyamuh coached side are drawn in pool “B” alongside River Angels of Nigeria, Asfar FC of Morocco and Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa while Pool A have hosts Wadi Degla, Mali’s AS Mande, Equatorial Guinea’s Malabo Kings and Hasaacas Ladies from Ghana. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam