The goverment has began demolition of illegal structures that have derailed completion of the road linking Westlands and Parklands in Nairobi. Caterpillars backed by a contingent of police officers moved into parts of the Deep Sea informal settlement that has stalled the construction of the 6th Parklands Avenue Road. According to the Ministry of Interior, the encroachers ignored repeated notices to move out despite pocketing compensation from the National Lands Commission. “The notices for voluntary vacation of the encroached road reserve had been issued under the project’s Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) negotiated with area leaders and those affected by the dual carriage road funded by the Japanese government,” said the Ministry in a statement. Nairobi Regional Commissioner James Kianda assured residents living outside the 40-metres road corridor that they would be spared from the demolitions. “We have had a number of engagements with the community. Consequent to the wide and open discussions, over 734 informal settlers on the road reserve agreed to vacate voluntarily after they were compensated,” Kianda said. Also Read: The regional commissioner, however allowed a few hours for those who were yet to remove their belongings to do so before the tractors moved in. He warned against inciting residents to resist voluntarily clearance of the Deep Sea and other road corridors in Nairobi’s informal settlements saying it was derailing the Government agenda to upgrade essential infrastructure. “We have not come here to talk about land ownership. We are only interested in clearing the road corridor. Our appeal to the Deep Sea community is to allow the contractor the space they need to complete this project,” he said. According to the Kenya Urban Roads Authority (KURA), the project is part of the JICA Master Plan for Nairobi and will link Ngong Road and Thika Road. The first phase has already been completed at a cost of Kshs. 4 billion. However, pockets of illegal settlers crept back to the settlement which measures about 120 metres square. This section will ensure smooth flow of traffic through Ring Road Parklands to Limuru Road and adjacent roads. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam