Former Harambee Stars head coach Francis Kimanzi is shocked that Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president Nick Mwendwa, sees no football talent in Kenya. Kimanzi who was sacked by Mwendwa last year from Stars’ technical bench on Friday told NTV Kenya that even without proper structures to develop the rich talent in Kenya, local players have still attracted clubs across Africa and beyond. According to the respected coach in Kenya’s football landscape, Mwendwa’s words are self-defeating, especially coming the federation chief. “I was surprised with what the federation boss said because despite the challenges we are facing in football at the moment the story about talent in this country is something no one should doubt because the players who have been natured in this country have surpassed the football administration in this country. “That’s why you will find scouts from different parts of the world coming to get players for Kenya,” said Kimanzi. According to the Wazito FC head coach, Kenya needs proper structures to be put in place by to fully exploit the vast football talent. Also Read: “When you say that we have no talent its takes us many years back because first, it means you have no coaches to train playerds and if you have no trainers it means you have no instructors. “Such remarks also makes it hard for potential sponsors to come on board because it will look like a waste of resources,” added Kimanzi. With hopes of qualifying to the 2022 World Cup now dashed, the veteran tactician urged the federation to come up with long-term plans to stabilise Harambee Stars and football in general, in the country. Kenya is currently third in Group E of the qualifiers with just two points, after a 6-0 aggregate loss to Mali last week. “We need to have both longterm and short-term plans for the national team. Without proper planning we will keep on repeating the same mistakes we have made previously,” he advised. Kimanzi’s sentiments add weight to questions being raised by stakeholders including national team legends, about Mwendwa’s moral authority to continue heading FKF having shown lack of confidence in the same sport. Mwendwa on Monday made the remarks, on a live TV show, while explaining Kenya’s embarrassing loss to Mali (5-0 loss in Agadir, Morocco and 0-1 in Nairobi). Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam