Harambee Starlets head coach Charles Okere says he does not have personal feuds with the high profile players he left out from the latest squad he named for the upcoming African Women Cup of Nations (AWCON) qualifiers. Okere named his provisional squad of 31-players on October 7 ahead of the opening round of the qualifiers against South Sudan, leaving behind some big and experienced names. They include Greek, PAOK Thessaloniki striker Esse Mbeyu Akida, Swedish IF Dalhem winger Mary Kinuthia as well as Spanish Women Premier League side EDF Logrono B forward Cynthia Shilwatso. In an interview with Citizen Digital, Okere said he player called up to camp are as good as any other and backed them to shine. “I have nothing personal against any player left out in the national team including the professional ones. I believe I have called up good players of the same ability with the ones locked out. I respect every player because they are talented on their own but I felt it’s good to give others chance to utilize their talent. “Football is a game of chances, and you may earn yourself a National call up today and miss in the list tomorrow, for those who missed out I am sorry to them but you never know maybe I can consider them going forward because qualifying for any tournament is a process and we are very far from it.” Okere said. Also Read: Starlets are scheduled to play South Sudan in first leg on Wednesday October 20, 2021 at the Nyayo Stadium before meeting them again in the same venue for the second leg match four days later. Commenting about their preparedness for the two legged match, Okere expressed his confidence ahead saying the spirit is very high in the camp and that he doesn’t have any injuries threat as for now. “The training has been well, players are on good condition and I haven’t heard anyone complaining of injury. I called up very few players so that many of them should get a chance in the squad. Being that both matches will be hosted in our backyard it’s an advantage to us as a team. We respect Sundae so much, they play good football but I am sure we will defeat them home and away.” Added Okere. Harambee Starlets will aim to bounce back in AWCON competition come 2022, after missing out in 2018 when they lost their qualifiers against Uganda crested Cranes as well as Equatorial Guinea. The winner of the 12th edition of the 2022 AWCON tournament to be hosted in Morocco from 2-23, July will earn a slot in the 2023 FIFA Women World Cup which will be co-hosted by New Zealand and Australia. FULL SQUAD Goalkeepers: Annete Kundu (Unattached), Pauline Katharu (Kibera Girls Soccer), Lilian Awour (Vihiga Queens), Maureen Shimuli (Ulinzi Starlets) Defenders: Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga Queens), Juliet Adipo (Kayole Starlets), Dorcas Shikobe (Lakatama FC), Lucy Akoth (Mathare United Women FC), Dorcas Neema (Nakuru Queens), Phoebe Awiti (Vihiga Queens), Enez Mango (Vihiga Queens), Nelly Sawe (Thika Queens), Ruth Ingotsi (Unattached) Midfielders: Sheril Angach (Gaspo Women), Corazone Aquino (Gaspo Women), Mercy Oginga (Vihiga Queens), Lydia Akoth (Thika Queens), Lilian Mmboga (Kibera Girls Soccer), Lorna Nyarinda (Kibera Girls Soccer), Martha Amunyolet (Transzoia Queens), Maureen Ater (Vihiga Queens), Merceline Wayodi (Kisumu All Starlets) Forwards: Terry Engesha (Vihiga Queens), Rachael Mwema (Thika Queens), Janet Bundi (Vihiga Queens), Jentrix Shikangwa (Vihiga Queens), Lucy Mukhwana (Ulinzi Starlets), Needy Akoth (Ulinzi Starlets) Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam