Kadenge is a household name in Kenya, courtesy of the the late Joe Kadenge whose football exploits for both Harambee Stars and AFC Leopards in his prime evoke memories of world class talent. His grandson Mark Joe Kadenge, 22, is cutting a different but a related niche, his passion and focus shifting to Sports and Fitness industry. Currently a third-year student pursuing a Bachelors in Sports Science at Kenyatta University, Mark Joe is a fitness trainer and physiotherapist, with his love for football turned to coaching. Mark Joe, is set to pursue a CAF D license while also training the Icon Soccer Academy in Westlands and Inspire Soka Academy based at Kahawa Sukari. Having grown up in a sports family, Mark Joe was tipped to become a football player by following the footsteps of his grandfather and father Evans Kadenge, the current Nzoia Sugar FCchairman. Destiny however shapes a different future, as the young lad reveals how he got the interest to venture into sports fitness. Also Read: “My elder brother Brian Kadenge who plays rugby for Blak Blad RFC is the one who took me to the gym for the first time in 2016. I was then a student at St. Mary’s Kibabii High School in Bungoma. This is what triggered me to have passion and interest in fitness,” he revealed. After sitting for his O level examinations, Mark Joe followed on his newly built passion by enrolling at Kenyatta University for a Degree in Sports Science. He is also a certified fitness trainer having successfully finished his Sports Science course and graduated from Nairobi Zoezi School. Aside from studies, he owns a brand, 317 Fitness, where they offer personal training and fitness services to clients who include sports athletes. “Now 317 is Fitness is all about staying healthy by exercising and taking good diets depending on what you want to achieve. I’m a personal trainer, and I offer my services to clients with different needs including losing weight, gaining weight, building muscles, nutrition and physical fitness for athletes especially in football and rugby,” says Mark Joe. Staying fit, according to Mark Joe is whole science, which goes beyond the gym. “There is a saying that abs are made in the kitchen. If you want to stay fit, be patient and sacrifice a lot. For instance, to lose weight you have to watch your diet by eating less carbohydrates (since they are stored as fats), avoid junk foods, and reduce sugar intake,” he states, adding that processed carbohydrates are not good. “Avoid processed carbohydrates. They are not good because they cannot be synthesized into your body, unlike the unprocessed carbohydrates we get direct from the farms including potatoes, maize, yams, cassavas, bananas among others which are easily broken into starch to give your body the much needed energy to function better.” He rallies Kenyans to stay fit by exercising and eating healthy, noting that it goes a long way in saving hospital bills and improving personal growth. “Kenyans should embrace exercising and eating healthy. As they say, a healthy nation is a wealthy nation. Staying fit not only saves you medical bills but also helps you beat lifestyle diseases like diabetes, kidney-related diseases, heart problems, improve your mental health and personal growth.” Giving his parting shot, Mark Joe notes that his dream is to venture into coaching and also start a gym that will focus on sports athlete’s management. “My dream is to fully venture into coaching and I will be starting my CAF D license soon. I also want to start my own gym where I will major into functional training, athletes’ management, injury management and fitness as a whole.” Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam