Harambee Stars head coach Engin Firat has apologised to Kenyans for the 5-0 whipping by Mali on Thursday, in their Group E 2022 Qatar World Cup qualifier. The coach who was making his debut with Stars has also pleaded with Kenyans to spare the players for the result, saying he is responsible for the debacle. Firat, in a uniquely stubborn honesty on Friday at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport – Nairobi when the team arrived from Morocco, underlined the decisions were his and the players were just executing his ideas. “I can now say I apologise to the Kenyan football fans especially for the first half in that match and if they want to blame anybody it is me. They should let the boys concentrate on the match (Sunday’s return match) against Mali. I need them to have all their mind on the match, and it is will be a tough one as we want to change something, and show we learn from our mistakes,” Firat beseeched. The coach however said he was equally shocked at the display by his charges especially in the first half, when they soaked in four goals. “To be honest I’m more than shocked because I didn’t expect something like that, I don’t know exactly what happened in the first half. I don’t know why we were so far away, we were not aggressive in challenges and especially what makes me angry is that the goals we conceded were from situations we handled in training. It was clear how they would play, but in the end it is my fault,” a disappointed Firat explained. Also Read: But while covering the players, the former Moldova head coach said national team duties must be accorded the seriousness they deserve.  Harambee Stars  captain Michael Olunga (centre), in action in a past match. “I’m not going to complain it is this player or that who failed, I’m not that kind of a person. I take responsibility, I trust the player, it’s my decision and if they don’t give the trust back, then I have to find solutions. The player has to understand this is a national team and there is no time for excuses,” he said. Firat is optimistic Kenya can still pull a surprise and stop Mali, saying what he saw in Agadir – Morocco is not commensurate with the team’s potential. “I ask Kenyans to calm down, football can happen. Blame me but let the boys play, they have to give them a chance to change what happened yesterday (Thursday). We therefore have to improve, why I’m angry and disappointed is because what I saw does not reflect my team. It is not what I have seen in training. If this was reflection of their capacity, I would say nothing, but these boys are much better,” he lamented. The last time Harambee Stars lost with such a big margin was 16 years ago, when Morocco sunk them 5-1 during the 2006 World Cup qualifiers. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam