The Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) has announced the national league calendar for the 2021/22 season with the national body fully aligning its activities in conformity with the International Volleyball Federation (FIVB) format. Unlike last season, where some of the league matches were held outdoor, KVF has moved all the action to Nyayo National Gymnasium and Kenya Ports Authority’s Makande Social Hall with the season running from November to June next year. Mombasa will serve off the regular season with Makande Social Hall hosting the first leg of the women’s league from November 27-28 while Nyayo National Gymnasium will play host for the men’s first action on the same weekend. League playoffs, which usually involve the top-four teams from the regular season, are scheduled for Nyayo Stadium on June 24-26. KVF’s Secretary General Ben Juma told Citizen Digital the fixtures and the number of the teams which will be participating in this season will be known after the technical meeting set to be held on November 6. “We’ve fully adopted the FIVB’s calendar and this is a good thing because now we will be doing things the right way. Also, all the league matches will be played in a gym and I urge our teams and all the stakeholders to welcome this move as it’s the only way we can be where our opponents have reached. Volleyball is no longer played in an open place and on soil, it’s not football,” said Juma. Also Read: Juma added that the federation has moved to fully comply with the Sports Act 2013 but says financial constraints remain the biggest hurdle. “The Sports Act directs all the federations to have vibrant and running leagues at the county level and despite financial challenges we want to fully align our activities with the law. I urge the county governments to come on board because we must incorporate them in that level. This will improve our standards of volleyball and get everyone involved.” Apart from the regular league, the national volleyball body also plans to organise tournaments on December 10-11 this year and January 29-30, February 26-27, March 9-10, April 9-10 and May 7-8, 2022. The calendar also includes the women and men African Clubs Championships set to be held from March 11 to 12, in a yet to be decided venue. In the men’s category, champions General Service Unit (GSU) will represent Kenya alongside Kenya Prisons who finished runners up during the playoffs which was held in Mombasa in August. Defending champions Kenya Prisons and KCB will represent the country in the women’s version after finishing in the first two positions respectively during the league’s climax. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam