Barnsley FC utility player Clarke Oduor would have probably cemented his place in the national team Harambee Stars by now, had there been consistency in the team’s technical bench. This is according to former head coach Francis Kimanzi who gave him his first and only cap against Zambia last year, a match Kenya won 2-1 at the Nyayo National Stadium. Kimanzi, whose last match in charge of Harambee Stars was the Zambia friendly, recalls how Oduor’s call up came about. “You see every coach has his way own way of thinking and scouting. According to our style of playing and what we wanted that time, we wanted to see him so we called him because when you have a player who is playing in such a league – the English Championship which is never easy, it means he must be having something to offer. I needed to see him and see what I can do with him within my set up,” explained Kimanzi, who now trains FKF-PL side Wazito FC. The veteran coach recalls Oduor who moved to England at the age of two with his parents, was disadvantaged by the strict Covid-19 protocols when he travelled for the Zambia friendly, but still showed a great potential in the few minutes he played.  Also Read: “That time there were a lot difficulties because of Covid-19 restrictions. He was delayed for long, a lot of back and forth between London and Nairobi. He thus arrived late, had just the last training session with the rest of the players but because it was a test match I gave him an opportunity. “I thought I would work with him in the future because if you are a good coach you will know if a player has something or not. I saw it, and I said with two to three call ups, he would give us a good game,” narrated Kimanzi, who however parted ways with Football Kenya Federation (FKF) just days after the match. Post the only match Oduor wore Kenya’s shirt, Kimanzi opines he has grown immensely and by merit, deserves a place in the Stars squad. “Every time you watch him in the Championship he is always a good player.  Good first touch, good vision, he understands the game and has a good football education. Even when we called him into the team, we knew he was not solely a left-back because he has has developed as a number six. So we knew he can play in the central midfield and also on the right cutting in, and we have his video clips even now,” he assessed. Barnsley manager Markus Schopp has this season fielded the former Leeds United 22-year old Oduor in 10 matches, including their last outing on Wednesday September 29 against Nottingham Forest. In the match, Schopp deployed him as an attacking midfielder centre (AMC), and clocked 80 minutes as they fell 1-3 to the Tricky Trees. Oduor who has not been called for the current FIFA World Cup qualifiers by new head coach Engin Firat, could be in action on October 2 against Millwall at the Oakwell Stadium. Immediate former coach Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee did not try him in a single match during his 10-month tenure. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam