The government lost an estimated Ksh.234.4 billion from the exemption of some goods and services from tax in 2020 according to a new Treasury report. This in contrast with Ksh.356.7 billion lost in 2017 representing a 34.3 percent narrowing of revenue spillages from tax exemptions in just three years. The narrowing of the spillages is largely linked to efforts by the National Treasury to cut down on the number of tax exemptions on good and services over the period. For instance, revenue lost to exempt items contracted to Ksh.82.9 billion from a higher Ksh.164.1 billion in 2017. Meanwhile, revenues yielded to zero-rated items has fallen to Ksh.151.45 billion in contrast to Ksh.192.6 billion in 2017. Among key items to see their tax status change have included fuel products which now attract VAT at eight per cent and LPG which now attracts VAT at 16 per cent. Also Read: As a percentage of GDP, revenues lost to tax exemptions are now equivalent to two percent of GDP from four percent in 2017. While the size of the economy has expanded in the period, the contraction of the revenue spillages in nominal terms shows gains by the exchequer. Even so, the National Treasury continues to battle to lower the tax exemptions further in a confrontation similar to a tag of war with legislators. For instance, Treasury has recently lost its bid to move the VAT status of supplies including maize flour and ordinary bread from zero-rated to exempt. Under the 2021 Finance Act, the supply of ordinary bread was retained as zero-rated while the supply of maize flour, cassava and wheat flour was zero rated meaning the manufacturers of the products can now claim input VAT. Further, Treasury yielded more exemptions this year following the zero-rating of medical equipment and inputs used to manufacture equipments such as ventilators, breathing appliances and medicament’s. Treasury was however successful in moving export bound taxable services from the zero-rated category to exempt status saving on input VAT claims. The exchequer has been out to squash most of tax exemptions currently in place as a means to raise domestic revenue. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam