Nandi County Senator Samson Cherargei now wants sports federations to introduce work contracts for the national team coaches in accordance with the Employment Act. According to the vocal Senator, other federations should borrow a leaf from the Football Kenya Federation and Kenya Rugby Union-who both have substantial agreements with their tacticians leading the respective national teams. Cherargei was speaking at his KICC office during the launch of the inaugural Heroes Community volleyball tournament which is set for October 16-17 at Koitalel University College in Nandi County, formerly Mosoriot Teachers Training College. “We need to have some reforms in the sector by introducing substantial contracts for the national coaches in the country. So that when you’ve a coach on contract you will be able to push them to deliver, because without an agreement the coaches will anytime leave the national team for their hustles to cater their needs,” he said. The Senator also called on the government to look at the welfare of retired athletes. “We should pay our retired sportsmen and women pension perks, especially those above 60 years and those who have represented the country in Olympics and World Championships. Also Read: “We’re paying our former councillors a lot of money and that should be extended to the retired athletes because they served this country diligently by winning medals during their years,” he added Cherergai’s call comes hot on the heels of his petition to summon the Sports CS Amina Mohammed and the management of Athletics Kenya and the National Olympics Committee of Kenya (NOC-K) to appear before the Senate over alleged poor display by Team Kenya at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. The tournament’s patron and Malkia Strikers’ coach Paul Bitok said the event is organised in recognition of past heroes for their splendid achievements in sports, urging the volleyball clubs across the country to register. “The confirmed teams so far are around 50 mostly from Rift Valley region and we are urging other interested teams all over the country to register because the event is open. We will also introduce the gala night to fete outstanding sportsmen and women of the year from the region,” said Bitok. The event was also attended by the Kenya Volleyball Federation vice-president Charles Nyaberi and Chesumei Member of Parliament Dr.Wilson Logo. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam