The National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) has secured a Ksh.1.05 billion grant from the Green climate fund (GCF) to combat climate change. The funding approval was granted during the 30th meeting of the GCF board held virtually on Wednesday, October 6. The project titled: “Enhancing community resilience and water security in the Upper Athi River Catchment Area, Kenya” will go a long way in improving water security and reducing  the impact of drought in the Athi River Catchment Area (ARCA). The fund secured will be deployed to increase water security and strengthen communities’ resilience to climate change targeting 1,156,620 direct beneficiaries. This will involve integrated water resources management and investment in water supply infrastructure in four vulnerable counties. “Interventions include hydrological and meteorological information management; installation and rehabilitation of water infrastructure; and
strengthening planning and regulatory frameworks for water resource management,” said NEMA. The project is to be implemented in partnership with the Kenya Meteorological Department (KMD) and the Water Resources Authority (WRA). Also Read: Some funds will be deployed to strengthen weather monitoring and forecasting through the development of a National Information Centre for integrated water resource management with integrated data analysis tools and a system of weather forecast information and a flood warning system
complemented with data sharing protocols for institutions in the water sector and the community. A bulk of the funds will be deployed to enhance water security through construction and rehabilitation of water supply and storage infrastructure including water pans, springs, and dams, boreholes and rainwater harvesting tanks to improve climate resilience. This will be a welcome relief to vulnerable water stressed communities and especially to women and girls who endure long periods in their daily schedules in search of water for domestic and other use. The project further seeks to strengthen the institutional capacity and regulatory frameworks for coordinated governance of water resources and adaptation planning though working with the beneficiary county governments and local level governance structures to develop  Sub-catchment management plans and County Environment Action plans. Equally important is that some funds will be deployed to undertake water quality monitoring and enforcement of the water quality regulations through investments that enable real time testing of water quality and enforcement of the regulations. This is the second major funding that NEMA has secured through the international climate finance mechanism. NEMA has been implementing an Adaptation Fund Programme titled: “Integrated Programme to Build Resilience to Climate Change and Adaptive Capacity of Vulnerable Communities in Kenya”. The programme is being implemented in 14 counties in Kenya and is addressing components in food security, water availability, disaster risk reduction, effects of sea level rise, shoreline stabilization and accretion control through integrated shoreline and mangrove ecosystem management in the coastal region. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam