Muthaiga Golf Club’s Greg Snow believes he stands a fine chance of victory at the Great Rift Valley if the condition of the course remains the same as he looks to win his first title in the Safari Tour Season Four as he produced a bogey-free five under par 66, to open a three shots lead as the third leg of the tour at the beautiful par 71 Great Rift Golf Resort. Snow birdied three of the four par threes starting with the 185-yard eighth hole. He then started the back nine with a birdie at the par four-10th, and the two shot holes at the back nine( 12th,15th ) in addition to a closer one at the par five-14th for his superb 66. “The course is in great condition and easy for one to score if you take off well from the tee and make sure you keep the ball in play. My iron game is great at the moment and I was extremely happy with the 30-footer putt at the eighth which really triggered my tremendous game.’’ said Snow tied for second place with Mike Kisia and Mohit Mediratta during the second leg at Vet Lab Sports Club last week. He starts the second round with a three shots advantage from senior pro Dismas Indiza who made four birdies and dropped two shots, one in each nine and he is joined at second place with Golf Park’s David Wakhu who both shot two under par 69 and birdied the second and fifth and at the 14th at the back nine, with the day’s only bogey coming at the 18th to tie for second place in the field of 58 players. The defending champion of the Great Rift leg Justus Madoya was one of those who shot under par in the opening round despite dropping three shots in the front nine after picking up four birdies at the back nine where he started his round. “This time I am feeling more relaxed than the last time that I won, having played badly in the first two legs at Sigona and Vet Lab. I’ve not been feeling well over the past one month where I have been under medication. But now I feel much better.’’ said Madoya, who is the defending champion of the Great Rift leg. Also Read: The Leader Board on Day One Greg Snow 66 Dismas Indiza 69 David Wakhu 69 Justus Madoya 70 Paul Chidale(Malawi) 70 Samuel Njoroge 70 Sydney Wemba (Zimbabwe) 70 Tafara Mpofu (Zimbabwe) 70 Mathew Wahome 71 Simon Ngige 71 Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam