Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has directed the Sports Registrar to undertake inspection of Football Kenya Federation (FKF) “in accordance to the provisions of Sports Act 2013.” Amina’s directive comes at a time FKF president Nick Mwendwa is under immense pressure from football stakeholders, following Kenya’s embarrassing loss to Mali last week in World Cup qualifiers. (6-0 aggregate). Beleaguered Mwendwa on Thursday also lost a case in the High Court where he had sought to stop the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) from arresting him over alleged misappropriation of funds. Amina wants the audit done in two weeks’ time, as recorded in a press release sent to newsrooms on Friday. “Today, pursuant to Section 52(1) of the Sports Act (2013), I have directed the Registrar of Sports to undertake the inspection of Football Kenya Federation in accordance to the provisions of the Act. “She is expected to commence the exercise from October 18, 2021 for a period of less than two weeks and submit a report to my office on or before October 2, 2021,” read part of the statement. Also Read: Amina has also pledged technical support to the Registrar, to complete the task within the required time. A number of stakeholders have welcomed the move, saying it was long overdue. Jointly, Twaha Mbarak, Sammy Sholei, Andrew Amukowa and Goshi Juma Ali have underlined the need to probe alleged misuse of funds from the Government. “I the view of the foregoing, we urge that the Kenya Revenue Authority, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and other relevant agencies of state to be involved in this probe so as to ensure no stone is left unturned or any skeletons left in the closet,” said the quartet in a statement. They also want Mwendwa and the National Executive Council (NEC) barred from transacting on behalf of Kenya in matters football, saying they illegally occupy the office. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam