AFC Leopards earned a hard fought point from a barren draw against a wasteful KCB in the Football Kenya Federation Premier League match at Thika Municipal Stadium. Leopards will thank their have their defence to thank for the point with goalkeeper particularly pulling several impressive stops to deny the home side who finished runners up last season. Coach Patrick Aussems’ side was buoyed by their 1-0 win over Tusker in the season opening weekend and were coming up against a KCB side who lost to Gor Mahia FC in the previous round. Boniface Mukhekhe received a fine through pass from Leopards midfield with only goalkeeper Gabriel Andika to beat but his slow reaction helped KCB to deal with the danger for a corner kick. The twelve time champions had a penalty shouts for a handball inside the area but the referer was not convinced. Mulili was forced to pull a brilliant finger tip save from a James Mazembe’s super header with only 15 minutes to the break. Also Read: Curtis Wekesa should have done better with a one on one from the right but shot wide to the Leopards advantage. Sugut Dan dribbled past KCB midfield to teed up Peter Thiong’o who unleashed a feeble shot straight to Andika’s gloves who parried back to the pitch.
In the second half restart, Curtis send a strong shot in the Leopards territory which was dealt with by Mulili. Ndenga Brian found himself in a tap in position only to outdone by a quick reaction from Mulili forcing the striker to loop the ball over the bar. In the 58th, KCB were forced to make an early change with Samwel Mwangi coming on for injured Brian Ndenga and Wekesa Curtis making the way for Michael Oduor for fresh legs. Leopards head coach ringed his first change with Maxwell Otieno coming on for Dan Sunguti in the 68th minute. Derrick Otanga had his open chance wasted with a his header going out inches off the left post. Mazembe was substituted for Otieno Rergan in the 78th minute with pressure mounting on the bankers. The draw leaves KCB without a win in two matches with Ingwe keen to build on the four points out of a possible six. Leopards head coach Aussems was pleased with the point. “I am very much satisfied with the point being that we are the youngest team in the league. The boys have played their all but I hope to strengthen probably by next week,” said Aussems. KCB assistant coach Geoffrey Oduor on his part has kept cool saying his side is at no point under pressure after two matches without a win
“It’s too early to be under pressure despite failing to win this game,” said Oduor. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam