Anti-narcotics detectives from the Directorate of Criminall investigations (DCI) based at the Jomo Kenyatta /International Airport on Wednesday seized a cache of drugs creatively hidden in two shipments. Detectives who acted on a tip-off said the two shipments were destined for Australia from Kenya and had been declared as Traditional African earrings. “The typical eye would easily pass the 168 pairs of earrings as just that, but the deft police officers sensed there was more than met the eye,” a police report from the DCI reads. “After deeper scrutiny, they discovered a yellow powdery substance cleverly concealed within the ornaments. The powder was subjected to presumptive tests soon afterwards and was positively identified as morphine,” In a second consignment  that had been disguised as 12 Kitenge dresses, the  detectives pounced on more loot- 12 dresses and 199 buttons. “Upon deeper inspection, they were awed to find a white powdered substance shrewdly hidden within the buttons,” the police report explains. “The powder was subjected to presumptive tests, which revealed it was yet another illegal narcotic substance, cocaine,” In early September, the anti-narcotics detectives seized 60 pellets of suspected heroin from a suspected drug trafficker  in Kayole. According to a police report obtained by Citizen Digital, the suspect, Beatrice Awuor who works at the Mbagathi Hospital as a nurse was preparing to ingest the pellets in order to transport them to an unknown location. “Transnational organized crime detectives acting on information received via our #FichuakwaDCI hotline, stormed her house in Nasra area within Kayole and pounced on the 42-year-old trafficker,” the police report said. Detectives found three passports after checking her home: hers and two others belonging to Caroline Adongo Mujibi and Risper Auma Ochieng, who are suspected of being her accomplices. “Upon further scrutiny, the sleuths managed to identify one of the passports as that of a drug trafficker, who has an ongoing case in court,” the police report adds. A job identity card which was also recovered during the operation identified the mastermind- Ms Awuor as a nurse working at the Mbagathi Hospital. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam