Ulinzi Starlets head coach Joseph Wambua says winning the FKF Women’s Cup is a big motivation  going to the new FKF Women Premier League season. The soldiers edged Vihiga Queens 2-1 to lift the inaugural FKF Women’s Cup at Nakuru Showgrounds on Saturday. Lucy Mukhwana put Ulinzi ahead in the seventh minute but the recently crowned CECAFA regional qualifiers champions capitalized on keeper Maureen Shimuli’s blunder to draw level in the 64th minute before Christine Nekesa cemented Ulinzi’s win after 10 minutes pouncing on a rebound from a free kick to seal the victory. “It was a very tough final for us. As you are aware Vihiga are the current Cecafa club champions but our motive was to stop their dominance … We were well prepared and all my players were in good state with no injuries,” he said. “The win has really motivated us ahead of the new season as we are looking forward to snatching the title from Thika Queens.” The women’s premier league will revert to its traditional unified format and is tentatively scheduled to kick off on Saturday, November 13. The federation had earlier proposed to have the new season kick-off on Saturday, October 30 but the dates were yet to be ratified by the crucial women’s committee. Also Read: The transfer window for the women teams was officially opened on Friday, October 1, and will run for six weeks up to November 12 with fixtures for the new season set to be out before the end of this week. Wambua however said he will have to bolster his squad ahead of the new season more so the defence and midfield departments. “We need a strong midfield because in our last weekend final against Vihiga it was a bit shaky a move which forced me to bring in some strikers to assist in that position something which shouldn’t have happened. I want also to thank our sponsors the Kenya Defence Force (KDF) for their support all through and also our fans for always being there to cheer their team and it’s  hope we are going for more titles next season.” In the ended season the league was played under two Conferences, Zone A and B of eight teams each but under the new format, teams will play on home and away basis. The newly adopted format means that the traditional end of the season play-offs which involved six teams, top three finishers in each zone to determine the overall league champion will not be there anymore since the team with the most points at the end of the season will be crowned champions hence representing the country in CAF Women’s Club Champions League. Defending champions Thika Queens, Gaspo Women, Ulinzi Starlets, Kayole Starlets, and Zetech Sparks are the five teams that maintained their status in the top tier league and will join the now unified league from Zone A while former three-time league champions Vihiga Queens will lead four other teams, Nakuru Queens, Wadadia Ladies, Kisumu All Starlets and Trans Nzoia Falcons in forming the unified league from Zone B. The promoted duo of Kangemi All Starlets and Bunyore Starlets will fill up the remaining two slots to make up a 12-team after Kangemi emerged Zone A champions and Bunyore Zone B champions. Six teams were relegated from the top tier league including Makolanders Ladies who have been in the topflight football for over 28 years and will now take part in the second-tier league, the FKF Women’s Division One League. They are joined in the lower league by other relegated sides Mathare United Women, Kibera Girls Soccer Academy, SEP Oyugis Girls, Eldoret Falcons, and Oserian Ladies. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam