Gor Mahia captain Haron Shakava believes the lack of financial flow at the club has led to the exit of key players who decamped to other clubs for greener pastures. The former champions lost dependable players including former captain Kenneth Muguna who opted for Tanzanian outfit Azam, defender Charles Momanyi, who joined Tusker FC, and Burkina Faso midfielder Abdul Karim who went back home. The FKF Premier League clubs stare into the financial abyss after the multi-million FKF deal with a Nigeria-based betting firm collapsed in August, and Shakava believes the challenge has also pushed Kenyan football to the brink of financial ruin. “We passed through difficult times last season and could not stop players from moving out since we did not have sponsors to meet their demands. It is my hope that this time around we are going to have sponsors to help us stay longer together as a team,’’ said Shakava. The financial abyss notwithstanding, the towering defender, who returned to Gor Mahia last season a short stint with Nkana of Zambia, is optimistic they will reclaim their league title which they lost last season to Tusker FC. “Despite the financial challenges, I’m sure we will fight to the end to reclaim the league title and also leave a mark at the continental level,” he added. Also Read: Recently, the club’s sporting director Lordvic Aduda confirmed that they could not agree in terms with their former midfielder Francis Kahata who became a free agent after his contract with Tanzanian giants Simba SC expired in June this year. ‘’We are not able to raise what Kahata is asking for at the moment. As a team we would not want to risk signing expensive players who will later take us to FIFA when we shall be unable to pay them promptly as has been the case recently,’’ explained Aduda on Kahata’s failed return. Another player who is yet to return to the club is winger Clifton Miheso who also reportedly put his terms on the table before he could renew his contract with the record champions. The club could neither meet his demands nor convince him to stay. Their immediate next big assignment is the CAF Confederations Cup match against Sudanese side Al-Ahly which will be played in Suez Egypt on October 15 with the return match in Nairobi a week later. The match was initially slated for Khartoum but in a communication published on Gor Mahia twitter page, the match has been switched to Suez in Egypt. They were scheduled to play guests to Kariobangi Sharks on October 15, the same date they are playing Al-Ahly in Egypt, meaning the local fixture will be postponed. Video Of The Day: Former sports CS Hassan Wario convicted over Rio games scam